Examines issues of racism in the United States, with attention to the social psychology of racism, its history, its relationship to social structure, and its ethical and moral implications.Explores the American Civil War through an examination of popular films dedicated to the topic. Students analyze films as a representation of the past, considering not simply their historical subject matter, but also the cultural and political contexts in which they are made. Films include The Birth of a Nation, Gone with the Wind, Glory, and Cold Mountain. Weekly evening film screenings.Explores the American Civil War through an examination of popular films dedicated to the topic. Students analyze films as a representation of the past, considering not simply their historical subject matter, but also the cultural and political contexts in which they are made. Films include The Birth of a Nation, Gone with the Wind, Glory, and Cold Mountain. Weekly evening film screenings.Explores the ways in which the idea of American freedom has been defined both with and against slavery through readings of legal and literary texts. Students come to terms with the intersections between the political, literary, and historical concept of freedom and its relation to competing definitions of American citizenship.Examines the challenge that globalization and imperialism pose for the study of history. How do historians balance the perspectives of victors and victims in past and present processes of globalization? How important are non-European versions of the past that may contradict European Enlightenment historical ideas and ideals? Class discussions interrogate questions about globalization and imperialism raised by proponents and critics, ranging from the Spanish conquest of Mexico to the American conquest of Iraq. Note: This course fulfills the non-Euro/U.S. requirement for the history major.Focuses on major humanities and social science disciplinary and interdisciplinary African American and African diaspora themes in the context of the modern world. The African American experience discussed in its appropriate historical context, emphasizing its important place in the history of the United States and connections to African diasporic experiences, especially in the construction of the Atlantic world. Material covered chronologically and thematically, building on historically centered accounts of African American, African diaspora, and African experiences. Introduces prospective Africana Studies majors and minors to the intellectually engaging field of Africana Studies; provides an overview of the major theoretical and methodological perspectives in this evolving field; and provides historical context for critical analyses of African American experiences in the United States, and their engagement with the African diaspora.The study of apartheid in South Africa, the system of racial and ethnic segregation that began in 1948 and ended with the first democratic election of Nelson Mandela in 1994. Explores the many different aspects of apartheid: how and why it emerged; its social and economic impacts; its relationship to other forms of segregation and racial-based governance; and how people lived under, resisted, and collaborated with apartheid. The readings, lectures, and class discussions focus on personal South African voices and explore their diverse gendered, ethnic, and racial perspectives.Seminar. Examines beliefs and practices having to do with evil spirits, demons, and the Devil in Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, the United States, and Western Europe. The primary focus is exorcism. What is it? How has it been practiced? By whom? Why? The approach to the subject is historical, transnational, and diasporic; examines changes and continuities across the Atlantic over the past five hundred years, beginning with cultural encounters between Africans, native Americans, and Europeans during the colonial period and continuing up through the reverse missionization and the new African diaspora of the present day. Readings include works of ethnography, anthropology, theology, history, personal narrative, and fiction.The social and cultural meaning of race and ethnicity, with emphasis on the politics of events and processes in contemporary America. Analysis of the causes and consequences of prejudice and discrimination. Examination of the relationships between race and class. Comparisons among racial and ethnic minorities in the United States.Explores how Christianity, Islam, and indigenous African religious beliefs shaped the formation of West African states from the nineteenth century Islamic reformist movements and mission Christianity, to the formation of modern nation-states in the twentieth century. While the course provides a broad regional West African overview, we will focus careful attention on how religious themes shaped the communities of the Nigerian region--a critical West African region where Christianity and Islam converged to transform a modern state and society. Drawing on primary and secondary historical texts as well as Africanist works in sociology and comparative politics, this Nigerian experience will illuminate broader West African, African, and global perspectives that underscore the historical significance of religion in politics and society, especially in non-Western contexts.An introduction to the cultures of various French-speaking regions outside of France. Examines the history, politics, customs, cinema, and the arts of the Francophone world, principally Africa and the Caribbean.Explores rich traditions of African American humor in fiction, comics, graphic narratives, and film. Considers strategies of cultural survival and liberation, as well as folkloric sources, trickster storytellers, comic double-voicing, and the lampooning of racial ideologies. Close attention paid to modes of burlesque, satirical deformation, caricature, tragicomedy, and parody in historical and contemporary contexts, including such writers and performers as Charles Chesnutt, Bert Williams, Langston Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston, Richard Pryor, Ishmael Reed, Aaron McGruder, Dave Chappelle, and Suzan-Lori Parks. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.How does the concept of “queerness” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for racial equality? And vice versa, how does the concept of “racialization” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for LGBT recognition and justice? While some of this work tends to reduce “queer” to traditional sexual minorities like lesbigay and trans folk while downplaying racial considerations, others tend to limit the category “race” to people of color like blacks while downplaying questions about sexuality. Such critical and creative gestures often place “queer” and “race” in opposition rather than as intersecting phenomena. Students examine the theoretical and cultural assumptions of such gestures, and their implications, through close readings of selected works in both the LGBT and African American literary traditions. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Seminar. Drawing on key readings on the historical sociology of transnationalism since World War II, examines how postcolonial African migrations transformed African states and their new transnational populations in Western countries. Discusses what concepts such as the nation state, communal identity, global relations, and security mean in the African context to critically explore complex African transnational experiences and globalization. These dynamic African transnational encounters encourage discussions on homeland and diaspora, tradition and modernity, gender and generation.Seminar. What makes a work of literature “black”? Is it the fact that its author can be clearly identified in racial terms, its subject matter, or its main characters? What if only one of these things can be determined, but not the others? How have the passing of Jim Crow segregation, the election of the first African American president, and changing racial norms impacted the coherence and legibility of the African American literary tradition? Students engage scholarly debates on these matters, as well as analyze past and present works of literature that aid us in examining some of the key assumptions that have (re)defined the field, including questions of literary mode, genre, and style. Possible authors include Toni Morrison, Percival Everett, Colson Whitehead, Debra Dickerson, among others.Through journal articles, films, and Internet sites explores how the Internet has cultivated new modes of communication and a new sense of selfhood among individuals and in society. Investigates the blurring of human and technological worlds and how that has shaped people's perception of the boundary of self and world. Also, asks how prevalent social inequalities have made their way online. To understand this massive technological transformation and its impact on societies, students will turn to their own lives, exploring how their identities and everyday lives are shaped by the Internet.Cultural anthropology explores the diversities and commonalities of cultures and societies in an increasingly interconnected world. Introduces students to the significant issues, concepts, theories, and methods in cultural anthropology. Topics may include cultural relativism and ethnocentrism, fieldwork and ethics, symbolism, language, religion and ritual, political and economic systems, family and kinship, gender, class, ethnicity and race, nationalism and transnationalism, and ethnographic representation and validity.An introduction to the discipline of archaeology and the studies of human biological and cultural evolution. Among the subjects covered are conflicting theories of human biological evolution, debates over the genetic and cultural bases of human behavior, the expansion of human populations into various ecosystems throughout the world, the domestication of plants and animals, the shift from nomadic to settled village life, and the rise of complex societies and the state.Anthropological research methods and perspectives are examined through classic and recent ethnography, statistics and computer literacy, and the student’s own fieldwork experience. Topics include ethics, analytical and methodological techniques, the interpretation of data, and the use and misuse of anthropology.Introduces students to the methods and concepts that archaeologists use to explore the human past. Shows how concepts from natural science, history, and anthropology help archaeologists investigate past societies, reveal the form and function of ancient cultural remains, and draw inferences about the nature and causes of change in human societies over time. Will include a significant fieldwork component, including excavations on campus.An examination of the development of various theoretical approaches to the study of culture and society. Anthropology in the United States, Britain, and France is covered from the nineteenth century to the present. Among those considered are Morgan, Tylor, Durkheim, Boas, Malinowski, Mead, Geertz, and Lévi-Strauss.Examines the storied place of museums in the acquisition, preservation, and display of cultural heritage. The past practices of museums are studied with an eye to how they inform present policies. Aims to examine museums’ responses when confronting national and ethnic claims to items in museums’ permanent collections; the ethical choices involved in deciding what should be exhibited; the impact of politics, conflicts, and war on museum practices; and the alliances between museums, archaeologists, art historians, and anthropologists. Students benefit from conversations with a number of Bowdoin faculty and staff, as well as a series of guest speakers from other organizations. Selected readings and class discussion are augmented by visits to the College’s two museums and other local museums.Examines contemporary social and political activism in India. Focuses on film, essays, and fiction to investigate the ways that political messages are constructed through different media and for specific audiences. Case studies include activism concerning religious conflict, gender inequalities, gay and lesbian identities, and environmental issues.Explores contemporary issues within Native American communities to gain a better understanding of legal issues between tribal governments and the Federal government, reservations, and urban Indian populations. We analyze issues facing contemporary Native American nations, including Indian gaming and casinos, federal recognition and sovereignty, blood quantum and biological race, religious freedom and sacred sites, mascots, and repatriation of human remains and important artifacts. Finally, efforts to reclaim traditional languages, hunting grounds, and arts are discussed.Explores the variety of practices, performances, and ideologies of sexuality through a cross-cultural perspective. Focusing on contemporary anthropological scholarship on sexuality and gender, asks how Western conceptions of “sexuality,” “sex,” and “gender” help (or hinder) our understanding of the lives and desires of people in other social and cultural contexts. Topics may include “third gendered” individuals; intersexuality and the naturalization of sex; language and the performance of sexuality; drag; global media and the construction of identity; lesbian and gay families; sex work; AIDS and HIV and health policy; migration, asylum and human rights issues; ethical issues and activism. Ethnographic examples are drawn from United States, Latin America (Brazil, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Argentina, Cuba); Asia (India, Japan, Indonesia) and Oceania (Papua New Guinea); and Africa (Nigeria, S. Africa). Presents issues of contemporary significance along with key theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches used by anthropologists. Integrates perspectives on globalization and the intersection of multiple social differences (including class, race, and ethnicity) with discussion of sexuality and gender. Not open to students with credit in Anthropology 210 (same as Gay and Lesbian Studies 210, Gender and Women’s Studies 210 and Latin American Studies 211.)An introductory course that presumes no previous knowledge of Arabic. Students begin to acquire an integrated command of speaking, reading, writing, and listening skills in Modern Standard Arabic. Some exposure to Egyptian Colloquial Arabic as well. Class sessions conducted primarily in Arabic.A continuation of first-year Arabic, aiming to enhance proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, and writing through the study of more elaborate grammar structures and exposure to more sophisticated, authentic texts.Introduces the techniques and methods of classical archaeology as revealed through an examination of Greek material culture. Emphasis upon the major monuments and artifacts of the Greek world from prehistory to the Hellenistic age. Architecture, sculpture, fresco painting, and other “minor arts” are examined at such sites as Knossos, Mycenae, Athens, Delphi, and Olympia. Considers the nature of this archaeological evidence and the relationship of classical archaeology to other disciplines such as art history, history, and classics. Assigned reading supplements illustrated presentations of the major archaeological finds of the Greek world.Examines the storied place of museums in the acquisition, preservation, and display of cultural heritage. The past practices of museums are studied with an eye to how they inform present policies. Aims to examine museums’ responses when confronting national and ethnic claims to items in museums’ permanent collections; the ethical choices involved in deciding what should be exhibited; the impact of politics, conflicts, and war on museum practices; and the alliances between museums, archaeologists, art historians, and anthropologists. Students benefit from conversations with a number of Bowdoin faculty and staff, as well as a series of guest speakers from other organizations. Selected readings and class discussion are augmented by visits to the College’s two museums and other local museums.Artists' experiences as recorded in self-portraits and life writings, and in others' writings and images, shape this investigation into art-making in Europe. The course examines the commonalities and particularities of early-modern and modern artists' situations within the larger contexts of artistic training, belief, class, economics, gender, geography, historical events, patronage, and politics. Class meetings feature viewings, discussions, and museum and studio field trips. Sequenced research and writing assignments introduce students to research and resources, develop critical-thinking skills, and offer valuable practice in drafting, revising, and refining written work.Examines public art that generates conversations about identity, disenfranchisement, and belonging, 1960 - present. Topics include but are not limited to: borders and immigration (Emily Jacir, Border Film Project), minority identities (Rob Lowe, Suzanne Lacy), queer subjectivity (Gran Fury, Felix González-Torres), environmental activism (Natalie Jeremijenko, Chris Drury), and memorials to tragedy (Ground Zero). Theories of memory and the public sphere help us to analyze works studied. Students work in groups to commission, design and jury a hypothetical work of public art. The course includes one field trip to Boston.Introduces the techniques and methods of classical archaeology as revealed through an examination of Greek material culture. Emphasis upon the major monuments and artifacts of the Greek world from prehistory to the Hellenistic age. Architecture, sculpture, fresco painting, and other “minor arts” are examined at such sites as Knossos, Mycenae, Athens, Delphi, and Olympia. Considers the nature of this archaeological evidence and the relationship of classical archaeology to other disciplines such as art history, history, and classics. Assigned reading supplements illustrated presentations of the major archaeological finds of the Greek world.Examines ways images, objects, and buildings shaped the experiences and expressed the beliefs of members of three major religious traditions (Christianity, Judaism, and Islam) in Europe and the Mediterranean region. Deals with artworks spanning the third century through the twelfth century from Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, and the Byzantine Empire. Includes thematic sessions, dealing with issues that cut across geographic and chronological boundaries. Topics include the embrace or rejection of a classical artistic heritage; the sponsorship of religious art by powerful figures; the use of images and architecture to define community and to reject those defined as outsiders; forms of iconoclasm and criticism of the use of images among the three religions; theological justifications for the use of images; and the role of images in efforts to convert or conquer members of another faith.Mannerism in art and literature. Artists include Michelangelo, Pontormo, Rosso, Bronzino, El Greco. Themes include fantasy and imagination, ideal beauty (male and female), the erotic and grotesque, and the challenging of High Renaissance values. Readings include artists’ biographies, scientific writings on the senses, formulas for ideal beauty, and description o court life and manners. Uses the Bowdoin College Museum of Art’s collection of sixteenth-century drawings, prints and medals.A survey of American architecture, sculpture, painting, and decorative arts from their colonial origins to the eve of Civil War. Emphasis on understanding art in its historical and cultural context. Issues to be addressed include encounters between diverse cultures, the transition from colony to nation, the rise and ideological significance of landscape painting, and the creation of art for a democracy. This class will work with original objects in the Bowdoin College Museum of Art.From the time of the ancient Romans, the Mediterranean has been a place of interactions between Europe, defined as "the West," and the rest of the world, understood broadly as "the East." This course will investigate the range of ways in which the West envisioned, encountered, appropriated, and idealized the East from the era of the Roman Empire to the nineteenth century. We will explore the cultural needs, fears, and concerns that shaped the depiction of the East in manuscripts, sculptural programs, trade objects, icons, relics, and in texts. Special attention will be paid to Western definitions and depictions of the Islamic world, particularly from the age of the Crusades through the fantasy-enriched images of Ottoman courts in Orientalist works like Ingres’ Grande Odalisque.Focuses on painting in Spain from the fifteenth century to the early nineteenth century, with special emphasis on the works of El Greco, Velázquez, and Goya. Examines art in the light of Spanish society, particularly the institutions of the church and Spanish court. Considers Spanish mysticism, popular custom, and Enlightenment ideals as expressed in or critiqued by art. Readings in the Bible, Spanish folklore, artistic theory, and artists’ biographies.Explores East Asian cinema from a genre perspective with a focus on Hong Kong action, Japanese anime, and transnational martial arts films. In the framework of social-cultural history and context of genre theory, the course examines the paradigms that characterize the form and content of such films; investigates the relations between local-global and national-transnational; studies genre-specific issues such as spectators’ perception or industry practices to discern the role of gender, nation, power, and historiography. After taking the course, students will be able to explain the theoretical concepts of genre cinema, analyze the genre’s visual formation, and comprehend the social-cultural implications of the genre.Explores East Asian cinema from a genre perspective with a focus on Hong Kong action, Japanese anime, and transnational martial arts films. In the framework of social-cultural history and context of genre theory, the course examines the paradigms that characterize the form and content of such films; investigates the relations between local-global and national-transnational; studies genre-specific issues such as spectators’ perception or industry practices to discern the role of gender, nation, power, and historiography. After taking the course, students will be able to explain the theoretical concepts of genre cinema, analyze the genre’s visual formation, and comprehend the social-cultural implications of the genre.Seminar. Addresses Chinese thought from the time of Confucius, ca. sixth century B.C.E., up to the beginning of the Common Era. The first half of the time period nurtured many renowned thinkers, who devoted themselves to the task of defining and disseminating ideas. The latter half witnessed the canonization of a number of significant traditions, including Confucianism. Major problems that preoccupied the thinkers include order and chaos, human nature, the relationship between man and nature, among others. Students instructed to treat philosophical ideas as historically conditioned constructs and to interrogate them in contexts. Note: This course fulfills the pre-modern requirement for history majors.Introduction to modern and contemporary Chinese history. Covers the period from the nineteenth century, when imperial China encountered the greatest national crisis in its contact with the industrial West, to the present People's Republic of China. Provides historical depth to an understanding of the multiple meanings of Chinese modernity. Major topics include: democratic and socialist revolutions, assimilation of Western knowledge and thought, war, imperialism, the origin, development, and unraveling of the Communist rule.As a latecomer to industrial modernity, Japan underwent rapid changes in the early part of the twentieth century. Examines how the creative minds of this period responded to the debates surrounding these sweeping technological and social changes, pondering, among other things, the place of the West in modern Japan, the changing status of women, and the place of minorities. Many of the writers from this period chose to write “I-novels” or first-person fiction. How is the inward turn in narrative tied to modern ideas of the self and its relationship to society? What sorts of quests does this self embark on and how is the end of the journey conceptualized? How do the romantic objects of this (male) self help express notions of stability/instability in a changing world? No prior knowledge of Japanese language, history, or culture is required. All readings in English.Comprehensive overview of modern Japanese politics in historical, social, and cultural context. Analyzes the electoral dominance of the Liberal Democratic Party, the nature of democratic politics, and the rise and fall of the economy. Other topics include the status of women and ethnic minorities, education, war guilt, nationalism, and the role of the media.An examination of the major trajectories of Buddhist religious thought and practice as understood from a reading of primary and secondary texts drawn from the Theravada traditions of India, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Burma.Examines contemporary social and political activism in India. Focuses on film, essays, and fiction to investigate the ways that political messages are constructed through different media and for specific audiences. Case studies include activism concerning religious conflict, gender inequalities, gay and lesbian identities, and environmental issues.Traces the history of India from the rise of British imperial power in the mid-eighteenth century to the present. Topics include the formation of a colonial economy and society; religious and social reform; the emergence of anti-colonial nationalism; the road to independence and partition; and issues of secularism, democracy, and inequality that have shaped post-colonial Indian society.Focuses on Asian American experiences from an interdisciplinary perspective, including history, English, Asian Studies, and sociology. Examines major issues in the experience of Asian Americans including immigration, the politics of racial/ethnic formation and identity, the political and economic forces that have shaped the lives of Asians in the U.S., historical experiences and influences on today's situation, and ways that Asian Americans have resisted and accommodated these influences. Uses a variety of lenses to gain critical perspective, including history, social relations and practices, and cultural production.Examines the Asian communism in China, Vietnam, North Korea, and Mongolia. Asian communism presents a series of fascinating questions. Why did communist revolutions occur in some Asian states but not others? Why were relations between some Asian communist states peaceful while others were hostile? Why did some adopt significant economic reforms while others maintained command economies? Why did communist regimes persist in most Asian states, while it fell in Mongolia and all of Europe? The approach of the course is explicitly comparative and structured around thematic comparisons between the four states.Introduces the basics of neurobiology and the challenges inherent to studying the brain. Topics will include basic neuronal function, animal behavior, mutations and mental illness, drugs and addiction, neuroethics, and consciousness. Readings from journal articles, websites, and popular press science books will be used. Students will develop critical thinking skills through regular class discussions, debates, and in-class scientific experimentation and data collection. Regular writing assignments will utilize a variety of science writing styles.Why is the global climate changing and how will biological systems respond? This course includes sections on climate systems and climate change, reconstructing ancient climates and past biological responses, predicting future climates and biological responses, climate policy, the energy crisis, and potential solutions. Includes a few field trips and laboratories designed to illustrate approaches to climate change science at the cellular, physiological, and ecological levels. Why is the global climate changing and how will biological systems respond? This course includes sections on climate systems and climate change, reconstructing ancient climates and past biological responses, predicting future climates and biological responses, climate policy, the energy crisis, and potential solutions. Includes a few field trips and laboratories designed to illustrate approaches to climate change science at the cellular, physiological, and ecological levels.The first in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Topics include fundamental principles of cellular and molecular biology with an emphasis on providing a problem-solving approach to an understanding of genes, RNA, proteins, and cell structure and communication. Focuses on developing quantitative skills, as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1101 101. Students continuing in biology will take Biology 1102 102, not Biology 1109 109, as their next biology course.The first in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Topics include fundamental principles of cellular and molecular biology with an emphasis on providing a problem-solving approach to an understanding of genes, RNA, proteins, and cell structure and communication. Focuses on developing quantitative skills, as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1101 101. Students continuing in biology will take Biology 1102 102, not Biology 1109 109, as their next biology course.The first in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Topics include fundamental principles of cellular and molecular biology with an emphasis on providing a problem-solving approach to an understanding of genes, RNA, proteins, and cell structure and communication. Focuses on developing quantitative skills, as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1101 101. Students continuing in biology will take Biology 1102 102, not Biology 1109 109, as their next biology course.The first in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Topics include fundamental principles of cellular and molecular biology with an emphasis on providing a problem-solving approach to an understanding of genes, RNA, proteins, and cell structure and communication. Focuses on developing quantitative skills, as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1101 101. Students continuing in biology will take Biology 1102 102, not Biology 1109 109, as their next biology course.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Focuses on the structure and function of cells as we have come to know them through the interpretation of direct observations and experimental results. Emphasis is on the scientific (thought) processes that have allowed us to understand what we know today, emphasizing the use of genetic, biochemical, and optical analysis to understand fundamental biological processes. Covers details of the organization and expression of genetic information, and the biosynthesis, sorting, and function of cellular components within the cell. Concludes with examples of how cells perceive signals from other cells within cell populations, tissues, organisms, and the environment. Three hours of lab each week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended. Not open to students who have credit for Biology 2023 223.Focuses on the structure and function of cells as we have come to know them through the interpretation of direct observations and experimental results. Emphasis is on the scientific (thought) processes that have allowed us to understand what we know today, emphasizing the use of genetic, biochemical, and optical analysis to understand fundamental biological processes. Covers details of the organization and expression of genetic information, and the biosynthesis, sorting, and function of cellular components within the cell. Concludes with examples of how cells perceive signals from other cells within cell populations, tissues, organisms, and the environment. Three hours of lab each week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended. Not open to students who have credit for Biology 2023 223.Focuses on the structure and function of cells as we have come to know them through the interpretation of direct observations and experimental results. Emphasis is on the scientific (thought) processes that have allowed us to understand what we know today, emphasizing the use of genetic, biochemical, and optical analysis to understand fundamental biological processes. Covers details of the organization and expression of genetic information, and the biosynthesis, sorting, and function of cellular components within the cell. Concludes with examples of how cells perceive signals from other cells within cell populations, tissues, organisms, and the environment. Three hours of lab each week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended. Not open to students who have credit for Biology 2023 223.Focuses on the structure and function of cells as we have come to know them through the interpretation of direct observations and experimental results. Emphasis is on the scientific (thought) processes that have allowed us to understand what we know today, emphasizing the use of genetic, biochemical, and optical analysis to understand fundamental biological processes. Covers details of the organization and expression of genetic information, and the biosynthesis, sorting, and function of cellular components within the cell. Concludes with examples of how cells perceive signals from other cells within cell populations, tissues, organisms, and the environment. Three hours of lab each week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended. Not open to students who have credit for Biology 2023 223.Examines fundamental concepts in neurobiology from the molecular to the systems level. Topics include neuronal communication, gene regulation, morphology, neuronal development, axon guidance, mechanisms of neuronal plasticity, sensory systems, and the molecular basis of behavior and disease. Weekly lab sessions introduce a wide range of methods used to examine neurons and neuronal systems.Examines fundamental concepts in neurobiology from the molecular to the systems level. Topics include neuronal communication, gene regulation, morphology, neuronal development, axon guidance, mechanisms of neuronal plasticity, sensory systems, and the molecular basis of behavior and disease. Weekly lab sessions introduce a wide range of methods used to examine neurons and neuronal systems.Examines fundamental concepts in neurobiology from the molecular to the systems level. Topics include neuronal communication, gene regulation, morphology, neuronal development, axon guidance, mechanisms of neuronal plasticity, sensory systems, and the molecular basis of behavior and disease. Weekly lab sessions introduce a wide range of methods used to examine neurons and neuronal systems.An examination of current concepts of embryonic development, with an emphasis on experimental design. Topics include cell fate specification, morphogenetic movements, cell signaling, differential gene expression and regulation, organogenesis, and the evolutionary context of model systems. Project-oriented laboratory work emphasizes experimental methods. Lectures and three hours of laboratory per week.An examination of current concepts of embryonic development, with an emphasis on experimental design. Topics include cell fate specification, morphogenetic movements, cell signaling, differential gene expression and regulation, organogenesis, and the evolutionary context of model systems. Project-oriented laboratory work emphasizes experimental methods. Lectures and three hours of laboratory per week.An examination of current concepts of embryonic development, with an emphasis on experimental design. Topics include cell fate specification, morphogenetic movements, cell signaling, differential gene expression and regulation, organogenesis, and the evolutionary context of model systems. Project-oriented laboratory work emphasizes experimental methods. Lectures and three hours of laboratory per week.An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.A comparative study of the function of the nervous system in invertebrate and vertebrate animals. Topics include the mechanism that underlie both action potentials and patterns of spontaneous activity in individual nerve cells, interactions between neurons, and the organization of neurons into larger functional units. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.A comparative study of the function of the nervous system in invertebrate and vertebrate animals. Topics include the mechanism that underlie both action potentials and patterns of spontaneous activity in individual nerve cells, interactions between neurons, and the organization of neurons into larger functional units. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.A comparative study of the function of the nervous system in invertebrate and vertebrate animals. Topics include the mechanism that underlie both action potentials and patterns of spontaneous activity in individual nerve cells, interactions between neurons, and the organization of neurons into larger functional units. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduces key biological concepts that are essential for understanding conservation issues. Explores biodiversity in the world’s major marine ecosystems; the mechanisms of biodiversity loss at the genetic, species, and ecosystem levels; and the properties of marine systems that pose unique conservation challenges. Investigates the theory and practice of marine biodiversity conservation, focusing on the interactions among ecology, economics, and public policy. Consists of lecture/discussion, lab, field trips, guest seminars by professionals working in the field, and student-selected case studies.Introduces key biological concepts that are essential for understanding conservation issues. Explores biodiversity in the world’s major marine ecosystems; the mechanisms of biodiversity loss at the genetic, species, and ecosystem levels; and the properties of marine systems that pose unique conservation challenges. Investigates the theory and practice of marine biodiversity conservation, focusing on the interactions among ecology, economics, and public policy. Consists of lecture/discussion, lab, field trips, guest seminars by professionals working in the field, and student-selected case studies.Seminar exploring the numerous roles of ribonucleic acid, from the discovery of RNA as a cellular messenger to the development of RNAs to treat disease. Topics also include RNA enzymes, interactions of RNA viruses with host cells, RNA tools in biotechnology, and RNA as a potential origin of life. Focuses on discussions of papers from the primary literature.A seminar exploring the complex relationship between genotype and phenotype, with an emphasis on emerging studies of lesser-known mechanisms of inheritance and gene regulation. Topics include dosage compensation, parental imprinting, paramutation, random monoallelic expression, gene regulation by small RNAs, DNA elimination, copy number polymorphism, and prions. Reading and discussion of articles from the primary literature.An advanced seminar focusing on one or more aspects of neuroscience, such as neuronal regeneration and development, modulation of neuronal activity, or the neural basis of behavior. Students read and discuss original papers from the literature.Covers the principles of population and quantitative genetics from an ecological perspective. Focuses on key concepts in the evolution of natural and managed populations, including subjects such as the heritability of ecologically important traits, inbreeding effects, and random genetic drift. Discusses various field and lab methods using genetic information in the study of ecology.Presents a realistic and mature picture of science and the methods employed by current scientists to provide acceptable justifications for scientific hypotheses and theories. Starting with the invention of science by the ancient Greek philosophers (Lucretius, On the Nature of Things) and using historical examples from various sciences, three philosophical models of justification examined in detail: logical empiricism (the Vienna Circle), Fallibilism (Popper), and Conventionalism (Kuhn). Several literary images of science (Vonnegut, Brecht, Pynchon, Crichton) are compared to the philosophical models. Examines the role of scientists in making certain value judgments about issues raised by developments such as organ transplants or stem cell research.The process of drug discovery of medicinal compounds has evolved over millennia, from the shaman’s use of medicinal herbs to the highly evolved techniques of rational design and high-throughput screening used by today’s pharmaceutical industry. Examines past and present approaches to drug discovery, with an emphasis on the natural world as a source of drugs, historical examples of drug discovery, and the experiments undertaken to validate a drug. Encourages students to take initial steps to identify novel therapeutics and to directly compare conventional versus herbal remedies in integrated laboratory exercises. Assumes no background in science. Not open to students who have credit for a chemistry course numbered 100 or higher.The process of drug discovery of medicinal compounds has evolved over millennia, from the shaman’s use of medicinal herbs to the highly evolved techniques of rational design and high-throughput screening used by today’s pharmaceutical industry. Examines past and present approaches to drug discovery, with an emphasis on the natural world as a source of drugs, historical examples of drug discovery, and the experiments undertaken to validate a drug. Encourages students to take initial steps to identify novel therapeutics and to directly compare conventional versus herbal remedies in integrated laboratory exercises. Assumes no background in science. Not open to students who have credit for a chemistry course numbered 100 or higher.The process of drug discovery of medicinal compounds has evolved over millennia, from the shaman’s use of medicinal herbs to the highly evolved techniques of rational design and high-throughput screening used by today’s pharmaceutical industry. Examines past and present approaches to drug discovery, with an emphasis on the natural world as a source of drugs, historical examples of drug discovery, and the experiments undertaken to validate a drug. Encourages students to take initial steps to identify novel therapeutics and to directly compare conventional versus herbal remedies in integrated laboratory exercises. Assumes no background in science. Not open to students who have credit for a chemistry course numbered 100 or higher.Natural and synthetic “chemicals” make up virtually everything we purchase and consume from breakfast cereals to soaps, shampoo bottles, and over-the-counter medications. Examines the chemical components of food, drugs, soaps, plastics, and other consumer goods we encounter daily. Explores scientific resources that can be used to obtain information on product components, safety, and regulations. Also considers topics related to some of the current safety concerns raised by chemicals found in common household items through case studies and research projects. Assumes no background in science. Not open to students who have credit for a chemistry course numbered 1100 100 or higher.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course.The first course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to the states of matter and their properties, stoichiometry and the mole unit, properties of gases, thermochemistry, atomic structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1101 101. Students continuing in chemistry will take Chemistry 1102 102, not Chemistry 1109 109, as their next chemistry course. A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).Methods of separating and quantifying inorganic and organic compounds using volumetric, spectrophotometric, electrometric, and chromatographic techniques are covered. Chemical equilibria and the statistical analysis of data are addressed. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Methods of separating and quantifying inorganic and organic compounds using volumetric, spectrophotometric, electrometric, and chromatographic techniques are covered. Chemical equilibria and the statistical analysis of data are addressed. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Methods of separating and quantifying inorganic and organic compounds using volumetric, spectrophotometric, electrometric, and chromatographic techniques are covered. Chemical equilibria and the statistical analysis of data are addressed. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Methods of separating and quantifying inorganic and organic compounds using volumetric, spectrophotometric, electrometric, and chromatographic techniques are covered. Chemical equilibria and the statistical analysis of data are addressed. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Introduction to the chemistry of the compounds of carbon. Describes bonding, conformations, and stereochemistry of small organic molecules. Reactions of hydrocarbons, alkyl halides, and alcohols are discussed. Kinetic and thermodynamic data are used to formulate reaction mechanisms. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Thermodynamics and its application to chemical changes and equilibria that occur in the gaseous, solid, and liquid states. The behavior of systems at equilibrium and chemical kinetics are related to molecular properties by means of statistical mechanics and the laws of thermodynamics. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics 1800 181 is recommended.Thermodynamics and its application to chemical changes and equilibria that occur in the gaseous, solid, and liquid states. The behavior of systems at equilibrium and chemical kinetics are related to molecular properties by means of statistical mechanics and the laws of thermodynamics. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics 1800 181 is recommended.Thermodynamics and its application to chemical changes and equilibria that occur in the gaseous, solid, and liquid states. The behavior of systems at equilibrium and chemical kinetics are related to molecular properties by means of statistical mechanics and the laws of thermodynamics. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics 1800 181 is recommended.Thermodynamics and its application to chemical changes and equilibria that occur in the gaseous, solid, and liquid states. The behavior of systems at equilibrium and chemical kinetics are related to molecular properties by means of statistical mechanics and the laws of thermodynamics. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics 1800 181 is recommended.Every year, 300 million tons of synthetic organic chemicals enter natural waters. This seminar examines the fate of organic contaminants in aquatic environments. We will use chemical structures and properties to predict contaminant partitioning, biodegradation, and transport, and evaluate the implications for human health and aquatic ecosystems. Case studies on endocrine disrupting chemicals, oil spills, and pharmaceuticals will allow us to critically examine inherent tensions between compound-specific chemical analyses and toxicity bioassays, between studies of single-compounds and complex mixtures, and between empirical and predictive approaches.In-depth study of compounds containing metal-carbon bonds and their reactions, with emphasis on synthesis and spectroscopy. A mechanistic approach is used to discover how these species act as catalylsts or intermediates in synthetic organic reactions. Special techniques for handling these often sensitve molecules are introduced.A foundation course for communicative skills in modern Chinese (Mandarin). Five hours of class per week. Introduction to the sound system, essential grammar, basic vocabulary, and approximately 350 characters (simplified version). Develops rudimentary communicative skills. No prerequisite. Followed by Chinese 1102 102. An accelerated course for elementary Chinese designed for heritage speakers and for students who have had some background in Chinese language. Emphasis on improvement of pronunciation, consolidation of basic Chinese grammar, vocabulary enhancement, reading comprehension, and writing. Five hours of class per week and individual tutorials. Followed by Chinese 1104 104. Students should consult with the program about appropriate placement.An intermediate course in modern Chinese. Five hours of class per week. Consolidates and expands the knowledge of grammar and vocabulary, with 400 additional characters. Further improves students’ Chinese proficiency with a focus on accuracy, fluency, and complexity. Followed by Chinese 2204 204.A pre-advanced course in modern Chinese. Three hours of class per week. Upgrades students’ linguistic skills and cultural knowledge to explore edited or semi-authentic materials. Followed by Chinese 206.Designed to develop mastery of the spoken and written language. Emphasis given to reading and writing, with focus on accuracy, complexity, and fluency in oral as well as written expression. Assigned work includes written composition and oral presentations.Examines Greek and Roman notions of responsibility to family, state, and self, and the social ideals and pressures that shaped ancient attitudes towards duty, shame, and honor. Readings may include works by Homer, Sophocles, Euripides, Virgil, Ovid, and Petronius.Surveys the history of Greek-speaking peoples from the Bronze Age (c. 3000–1100 B.C.E.) to the death of Alexander the Great in 323 B.C.E. Traces the political, economic, social, religious, and cultural developments of the Greeks in the broader context of the Mediterranean world. Topics include the institution of the polis (city-state); hoplite warfare; Greek colonization; the origins of Greek “science,” philosophy, and rhetoric; and fifth-century Athenian democracy and imperialism. Necessarily focuses on Athens and Sparta, but attention is also given to the variety of social and political structures found in different Greek communities. Special attention is given to examining and attempting to understand the distinctively Greek outlook in regard to gender, the relationship between human and divine, freedom, and the divisions between Greeks and barbarians (non-Greeks). A variety of sources—literary, epigraphical, archaeological—are presented, and students learn how to use them as historical documents.The mythical fate-driven foundation of Rome and the city’s subsequent self-fashioning as caput mundi (“capital of the world”) have made the city an idea that transcends history, and that has for millennia drawn historians, poets, artists, and, most recently, filmmakers to attempt to capture Rome’s essence. As a result, the city defined by its ruins is continually created anew; this synergy between the ruins of Rome—together with the mutability of empire that they represent—and the city’s incessant rebirth through the lives of those who visit and inhabit it offers a model for understanding the changing reception of the classical past. This research seminar explores the cycle of ancient Rome’s life and afterlife in the works of writers and filmmakers such as Livy, Virgil, Tacitus, Juvenal, Petrarch, Shakespeare, Keats, Goethe, Gibbon, Hawthorne, Freud, Moravia, Rossellini, Fellini, Bertolucci, and Moretti. All readings are in English.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.Solving complex algorithmic problems requires the use of appropriate data structures such as stacks, priority queues, search trees, dictionaries, hash tables, and graphs. It also requires the ability to measure the efficiency of operations such as sorting and searching in order to make effective choices among alternative solutions. Offers a study of data structures, their efficiency, and their use in solving computational problems. Laboratory exercises provide an opportunity to design and implement these structures. Students interested in taking Computer Science 2101 (210) are required to pass the computer science placement examination before class starts.Solving complex algorithmic problems requires the use of appropriate data structures such as stacks, priority queues, search trees, dictionaries, hash tables, and graphs. It also requires the ability to measure the efficiency of operations such as sorting and searching in order to make effective choices among alternative solutions. Offers a study of data structures, their efficiency, and their use in solving computational problems. Laboratory exercises provide an opportunity to design and implement these structures. Students interested in taking Computer Science 2101 (210) are required to pass the computer science placement examination before class starts.An introductory course on the design and analysis of algorithms. Introduces a number of basic algorithms for a variety of problems such as searching, sorting, selection, and graph problems (e.g., spanning trees and shortest paths). Discusses analysis techniques, such as recurrences and amortization, as well as algorithm design paradigms such as divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and greedy algorithms.Focuses on different paradigms for solving problems, and their representation in programming languages. These paradigms correspond to distinct ways of thinking about problems. For example, “functional” languages (such as Haskell) focus attention on the behavioral aspects of the real-world phenomena being modeled; “logic programming” languages (such as Prolog) focus attention on the declarative aspects of problem-solving. Covers principles of language design and implementation including syntax, semantics, type systems, control structures, and compilers.Explores the principles and techniques involved in programming computers to do tasks that would require intelligence if people did them. State-space and heuristic search techniques, logic and other knowledge representations, reinforcement learning, neural networks, and other approaches are applied to a variety of problems with an emphasis on agent-based approaches.Geographic information systems (GIS) handle geographical data such as boundaries of countries; course of rivers; height of mountains; and location of cities, roads, railways, and power lines. GIS can help determine the closest public hospital, find areas susceptible to flooding or erosion, track the position of a car on a map, or find the shortest route from one location to another. Because GIS deal with large datasets, making it important to process data efficiently, they provide a rich source of problems in computer science. Topics covered include data representation, triangulation, range searching, point location, map overlay, meshes and quadtrees, terrain simplification, and visualization.Studies the principles and practice of software development, with a particular emphasis on humanitarian free and open source software (HFOSS), agile methods, team programming, and real-world applications. Agile methods include unit testing, team programming, using collaboration tools, code sharing, unit testing, refactoring. The course requires students to learn about and and master these methods by working in teams with real clients to complete real software projects. Thus, the course has a required community service component. Examples of past projects completed by Bowdoin computer science students can be found at http://myopensoftware.org/content/new-projects-2012.Explores movement invention, organization, and meaning. Problem-solving exercises, improvisations, and studies focus mainly on solo, duet, and trio forms. A video component introduces students—regardless of previous experience in dance—to a wide range of compositional methods and purposes. Includes reading, writing, discussion, attendance at live performances, and—when possible—work with visiting professional artists.Dancing is a fundamental human activity, a mode of communication, and a basic force in social life. Investigates dance and movement in the studio and classroom as aesthetic and cultural phenomena. Explores how dance and movement activities reveal information about cultural norms and values and affect perspectives in our own and other societies. Using ethnographic methods, focuses on how dancing maintains and creates conceptions of one’s own body, gender relationships, and personal and community identities. Experiments with dance and movement forms from different cultures and epochs—for example, the hula, New England contradance, classical Indian dance, Balkan kolos, ballet, contact improvisation, and African American dance forms from swing to hip-hop—through readings, performances, workshops in the studio, and field work.Classes in modern dance technique include basic exercises to develop dance skills such as balance and musicality. More challenging movement combinations and longer dance sequences build on these exercises. While focusing on the craft of dancing, students develop an appreciation of their own styles and an understanding of the role of craft in the creative process. During the semester, a historical overview of twentieth-century American dance on video is presented. Attendance at all classes is required. May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Repertory students are required to take Dance 1211 111 concurrently. Repertory classes provide the chance to learn faculty-choreographed works or reconstructions of historical dances. Class meetings are conducted as rehearsals for performances at the end of the semester: the December Studio Show, the annual Spring Performance in Pickard Theater, or Museum Pieces at the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in May. Additional rehearsals are scheduled before performances. Attendance at all classes and rehearsals is required. May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Introduction to the language, theory, and practice of technical theater. Hands-on experience in lighting, scenic and property construction, costuming, and stage management. Considers the possibilities, demands, and limits inherent in different forms of performance and performance spaces, and explores the job roles integral to theater and dance production. Includes forty hours of laboratory work. Grading is Credit/D/Fail.Introduction to the language, theory, and practice of technical theater. Hands-on experience in lighting, scenic and property construction, costuming, and stage management. Considers the possibilities, demands, and limits inherent in different forms of performance and performance spaces, and explores the job roles integral to theater and dance production. Includes forty hours of laboratory work. Grading is Credit/D/Fail.An introduction to theatrical design that stimulates students to consider the world of a play, dance, or performance piece from a designer’s perspective. Through projects, readings, discussion, and critiques, students explore the fundamental principles of visual design, as they apply to set, lighting, and costume design, as well as text analysis for the designer, and the process of collaboration. Strong emphasis on perceptual, analytical, and communication skills.A continuation of the processes introduced in Dance 1221 121. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Repertory students are required to take Dance 2221 221 concurrently. Repertory classes are an opportunity to learn and perform new choreography or historical reconstructions created by faculty or guests. Class meetings conducted as rehearsals. Additional rehearsals may be required. Attendance at all classes, studio and stage rehearsals, and performances required. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Examines contemporary forms such as live art, neo-cabaret, dance theatre, theatre of images, new circus, solo performance, site-specific theatre. Hybrid by nature and rebellious in spirit, these practices reject the boundaries and conventions of traditional theater and dance. Yet for all its innovation, contemporary performance has roots deep in the 20th avant-gardes. What, these days, is new about performance? Through readings, film screenings, and our own performance making, this course considers the genealogical roots of performance, and investigates the ways 21st century performance is exploring body, mind, technology, social justice, intercultural and transnational aesthetics, and globalism. Assignments will include readings, research presentations, written responses, and short-form performance projects.A continuation of the processes introduced in Dance 2211 (211). May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Intermediate/advanced repertory students are required to take Dance 3211 (311) concurrently. A continuation of the principles and practices introduced in Dance 2212 (212). May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Experienced student actors, dancers, and musicians collaborate to devise an original performance event. Examines the history of collective creation and the various emphases different artists have brought to that process. Immerses students in the practice of devising, stretching from conception and research to writing, staging, and ultimately performing a finished piece.Dynamic processes, such as earthquakes and volcanoes, shape the earth on which we live. In-class lectures and exercises examine these processes from the framework of plate tectonics. Weekly field laboratories explore rocks exposed along the Maine coast. During the course, students complete a research project on Maine geology.Dynamic processes, such as earthquakes and volcanoes, shape the earth on which we live. In-class lectures and exercises examine these processes from the framework of plate tectonics. Weekly field laboratories explore rocks exposed along the Maine coast. During the course, students complete a research project on Maine geology.Dynamic processes, such as earthquakes and volcanoes, shape the earth on which we live. In-class lectures and exercises examine these processes from the framework of plate tectonics. Weekly field laboratories explore rocks exposed along the Maine coast. During the course, students complete a research project on Maine geology.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Volcanoes make the news for their human impact, and they reveal much about the inner workings of Earth. Examination of volcanic eruptions, landforms, products, and hazards. Exploration of tectonic influence and magmatic origins of volcanoes. Investigation into the impact of volcanoes on humans, climate, and earth history.Geologic structures yield evidence for the dynamic deformation of the earth’s crust. Examines deformation at scales that range from the plate-tectonic scale of the Appalachian mountains to the microscopic scale of individual minerals. A strong field component provides ample opportunity for describing and mapping faults, folds, and other structures exposed along the Maine coast. In-class exercises focus on problem-solving through the use of geologic maps, cross-sections, stereographic projections, strain analysis, and computer applications.Geologic structures yield evidence for the dynamic deformation of the earth’s crust. Examines deformation at scales that range from the plate-tectonic scale of the Appalachian mountains to the microscopic scale of individual minerals. A strong field component provides ample opportunity for describing and mapping faults, folds, and other structures exposed along the Maine coast. In-class exercises focus on problem-solving through the use of geologic maps, cross-sections, stereographic projections, strain analysis, and computer applications.Investigates modern and ancient sedimentary systems, both continental and marine, with emphasis on the dynamics of sediment transport, interpretation of depositional environments from sedimentary structures and facies relationships, stratigraphic techniques for interpreting earth history, and tectonic and sea-level controls on large-scale depositional patterns. Weekend trip to examine Devonian shoreline deposits in the Catskill Mountains in New York is required.Investigates modern and ancient sedimentary systems, both continental and marine, with emphasis on the dynamics of sediment transport, interpretation of depositional environments from sedimentary structures and facies relationships, stratigraphic techniques for interpreting earth history, and tectonic and sea-level controls on large-scale depositional patterns. Weekend trip to examine Devonian shoreline deposits in the Catskill Mountains in New York is required.Investigates modern and ancient sedimentary systems, both continental and marine, with emphasis on the dynamics of sediment transport, interpretation of depositional environments from sedimentary structures and facies relationships, stratigraphic techniques for interpreting earth history, and tectonic and sea-level controls on large-scale depositional patterns. Weekend trip to examine Devonian shoreline deposits in the Catskill Mountains in New York is required.Compares and contrasts the tectonic evolution, geography, climate, glaciers and sea ice, ocean circulation and ocean biology of the Arctic and Antarctic regions. Emphasis on the polar regions’ role in global climate regulation and the sensitivity of these regions to climate change. In addition to scientific readings (text book chapters and journal articles), students read an array of first-hand accounts of polar exploration from the turn of the twentieth century.A mathematically rigorous analysis of the motions of the atmosphere and oceans on a variety of spatial and temporal scales. Covers fluid dynamics in inertial and rotating reference frames, as well as global and local energy balance, applied to the coupled ocean-atmosphere system.The ocean plays a key role in regulating Earth’s climate and serves as an archive of past climate conditions. The study of paleoceanography provides a baseline of natural oceanographic variability against which human-induced climate change must be assessed. Examination of the ocean’s physical, biological, and biogeochemical responses to external and internal forcings of Earth’s climate with focus on the Cenozoic Era (past 65.5 million years). Weekly labs and projects emphasize paleoceanographic reconstructions using deep-sea sediments, corals, and ice cores. This course includes a laboratory and fulfills the 300-level research experience course requirement for the Earth and Oceanographic Science major.The ocean plays a key role in regulating Earth’s climate and serves as an archive of past climate conditions. The study of paleoceanography provides a baseline of natural oceanographic variability against which human-induced climate change must be assessed. Examination of the ocean’s physical, biological, and biogeochemical responses to external and internal forcings of Earth’s climate with focus on the Cenozoic Era (past 65.5 million years). Weekly labs and projects emphasize paleoceanographic reconstructions using deep-sea sediments, corals, and ice cores. This course includes a laboratory and fulfills the 300-level research experience course requirement for the Earth and Oceanographic Science major. Explores the economics of culture, including the analysis of markets for art, music, literature, and movies. If culture is “priceless,” then why do artists starve while providers of pet food make billions? Why are paintings by dead artists generally worth more than paintings by living artists? Could music piracy on the information superhighway benefit society? Can Tom Hanks turn a terrible movie into a contender at the box office? Students are not required to have any prior knowledge of economics, and will not be allowed to argue that baseball comprises culture.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.A historical study of insights and methods of inquiry into the functions of markets and the role of government in shaping them. Readings include the original works of economic thinkers from the eighteenth to twentieth centuries, including Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Henry Carey, Karl Marx, Henry George, Thorstein Veblen, and John Maynard Keynes, among others. Different historiographical approaches are employed, including examination of the problems motivating past thinkers as well as the relevance of their ideas to modern economics.An alternative (heterodox) analysis of a capitalist market economy rooted in Marx’s methodological framework, which focuses on the interconnected role played by market relations, class/power relations, exploitation and internal tendencies towards growth, crisis, and qualitative change. Students are introduced to the Marxian method and economic theory through a reading of Volume I of Capital. Subsequently, the Marxian framework is applied to analyze the modern capitalist economy with an emphasis on the secular and cyclical instability of the economy, changing institutional structures and their ability to promote growth, labor market issues, globalization, and the decline of the Soviet Union.Provides a thorough exposure to asset valuation, portfolio management, and corporate financial decision-making. In addition, presents the financial accounting concepts necessary to utilize corporate financial statements in valuation and decision-making exercises. Topics include functions and structure of the financial system; measures of return and risk, and discounted cash-flow analysis; overview of financial statements and financial statement analysis; portfolio theory, asset pricing models, and efficient markets theory; corporate decision-making—the cost of capital, capital budgeting, and capital structure. Mathematics 161 is recommended.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An introduction to the data and statistical methods used in economics. A review of the systems that generate economic data and the accuracy of such data is followed by an examination of the statistical methods used in testing the hypotheses of economic theory, both micro- and macro-. Probability, random variables and their distributions, methods of estimating parameters, hypothesis testing, regression, and correlation are covered. The application of multiple regression to economic problems is stressed. Students who have taken Mathematics 2606 265 are encouraged to take Economics 3516 316 instead of this course.Seminar. Surveys a number of topics in international finance and international macroeconomics, including balance of payments, exchange rate determination, the Mundell-Fleming model of output and exchange rate, exchange rate regimes, international capital flows, and international financial crises. Involves data analysis to empirically evaluate the theoretical models. Also provides a special focus on Asia by discussing issues such as Asia's role in the global imbalances, China's exchange rate regime, and the currency carry trade associated with the Japanese Yen.Seminar. A study of the mathematical formulation of economic models and the statistical methods of testing them. A detailed examination of the general linear regression model, its assumptions, and its extensions. Applications to both micro- and macroeconomics are considered. Though most of the course deals with single-equation models, an introduction to the estimation of systems of equations is included. An empirical research paper is required.Seminar. Theoretical and empirical analysis of selected microeconomic issues within the context of developing countries. Has a dual focus on modeling household decisions and on the effects of government policy and intervention on household behavior and well being. Topics include agricultural production, land use systems, technology and credit markets, household labor allocation and migration, investment in education and health, and income inequality.Seminar. Microeconomic analysis of the family—gender roles and related institutions. Topics include marriage, fertility, married women’s labor supply, divorce, and the family as an economic organization.Explores the experiences of various stakeholders: students, parents, teachers, educational leaders, unions, local residents, non-profit and educational management organizations and the roles of urban public schools in their communities. Films and readings will examine representations of urban students, their teachers, and their schools, will analyze the purposes, challenges, and possibilities of urban education, will consider schools’ relationships to the cities in which they are located, and will interrogate the politics of urban teaching. Investigates urban schools as sites of promise and innovation as well as sites for social and political struggle.Examines current educational issues in the United States and the role schools play in society. Topics include the purpose of schooling; school funding and governance; issues of race, class, and gender; school choice; and the reform movements of the 1990s. The role of schools and colleges in society’s pursuit of equality and excellence forms the backdrop of this study.An examination of the economic, social, political, and pedagogical implications of universal education in American classrooms. Focuses on the right of every child, including physically handicapped, learning disabled, and gifted, to equal educational opportunity. Requires a minimum of twenty-four hours of observation in a local secondary school.Examines the ways that formal schooling influences individuals and the ways that social structures and processes affect educational institutions. Explores the manifest and latent functions of education in modern society; the role education plays in stratification and social reproduction; the relationship between education and cultural capital; the dynamics of race, class, and gender in education; and other topics.Examines theories of how people learn and the implications of those theories for the education of students, particularly those who have been traditionally underserved in the United States. Course concepts will be grounded in empirical research and authentic activities geared towards understanding the nuances and complexities of perspectives on behavior, cognition, development, motivation, sociocultural identities and pedagogy in PK-12 educational contexts. Insights for the ways educators can structure learning experiences to better serve students’ needs from a variety of backgrounds will be cultivated through a field placement working with students. Explores theories and methods of teaching writing, emphasizing collaborative learning and peer tutoring. Examines relationships between the writing process and the written product, writing and learning, and language and communities. Investigates disciplinary writing conventions, influences of gender and culture on language and learning, and concerns of ESL and learning disabled writers. Students practice and reflect on revising, responding to others’ writing, and conducting conferences. Prepares students to serve as writing assistants for the Writing Project.One critique of K-12 schooling is that it separates the learning happening within the school walls from the places people inhabit. Place-based education is a form of education that seeks to connect students' learning with the community and the local natural and built environment. This course explores the history, theory, and practice of place-based education with special attention given to the prospects and challenges of using this framework in formal K-12 educational settings. Instruction models tenets of place-based pedagogy to actively engage participants in learning about the course material and the community in which we reside.A study of what takes place in classrooms: the methods and purposes of teachers, the response of students, and the organizational context. Readings and discussions help inform students’ direct observations and written accounts of local classrooms. Peer teaching is an integral part of the course experience. Requires a minimum of thirty-six hours of observation in a local secondary school. Education 3302 303 must be taken concurrently with this course. In order to qualify for this course students must have Education 1101 101 and 2203 203; junior or senior standing; a concentration in a core secondary school subject area (English: four courses in English; foreign language: four courses in the language; life science: four courses in biology; mathematics: four courses in mathematics; physical science: three courses in chemistry, earth and oceanographic science, or physics and one course in one of the other departments listed; or social studies: three courses in history and one course in anthropology, economics, government, psychology, or sociology); and permission of the instructor.A study of the knowledge taught in schools; its selection and the rationale by which one course of study rather than another is included; its adaptation for different disciplines and for different categories of students; its cognitive and social purposes; the organization and integration of its various components. Education 3301 301 must be taken concurrently with this course. In order to qualify for this course, students must have Education 1101 101 and 2203 203; junior or senior standing; and a concentration in a core secondary school subject area (English: four courses in English; foreign language: four courses in the language; life science: four courses in biology; mathematics: four courses in mathematics; physical science: three courses in chemistry, earth and oceanographic science, or physics and one course in one of the other departments listed; or social studies: three courses in history and one course in anthropology, economics, government, psychology, or sociology).Romeo and Juliet as garden gnomes, Richard III as Adolf Hitler, King Lear as aging patriarch of an Iowa family farm...these are some of the ways that Shakespeare’s plays and characters have been adapted over the centuries. Reading plays from representative genres together with their adaptations, we examine the aesthetic, cultural, and political transformations of the Bard in prose, film, and other mediums. Readings include Oscar Wilde, Tom Stoppard, Jane Smiley, Marjorie Garber, and Arthur Philips, with a film by John Madden (Shakespeare in Love).Where are you from? How does the place you’re born and raised inform your consciousness? Novels answer these questions more fully and deeply than any other kind of writing. Investigates psychological, spiritual, cultural, historical, and political meanings of home. Students read novels, stories, and essays in which place is itself a character. Questions include: How do writers create vivid, palpable places? How does a book’s setting illuminate the (often secret) lives of its characters? Special focus on the coastline, on water, and on shape-shifting landscapes that draw attention to shifting identities. Through critical and creative assignments, students analyze creative prose and write their own. By experimenting with various stylistic techniques, and by visiting sites along the Maine coast, participants seek to document past homes in a new way—and to experience a new place as home. Readings may include Virginia Woolf, Denton Welsh, James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, Annie Dillard, Marilynn Robinson, Jamaica Kincaid, Bonnie Nadzam, Eowyn Ivy, and others.Readings include selected short stories, Fanshawe, The Scarlet Letter, The Blithedale Romance, The House of the Seven Gables, The Marble Faun, Septimus Felton, and James Mellow’s Nathaniel Hawthorne in His Times.Explores the ways in which the idea of American freedom has been defined both with and against slavery through readings of legal and literary texts. Students come to terms with the intersections between the political, literary, and historical concept of freedom and its relation to competing definitions of American citizenship.A course in close reading. Explores poetry, primarily in the Romantic tradition, which dallies with the dangers of lyrical transport, whether in the form of fusion with the divine, aesthetic seduction, impossible quest, or physical transfiguration. Authors may include Coleridge, Wordsworth, Keats, Tennyson, Yeats, Crane, and Stevens.An introduction to the study and creation of various kinds of narrative forms (short story, travel essay, bildungsroman, detective fiction, environmental essay, satire, personal essay, etc.). Students write critical essays and use the readings in the class as models for their own short stories and works of creative nonfiction. Class members discuss a wide range of published canonical and contemporary narratives and workshop their own essays and stories. In doing so, the class dedicates itself to both the study of literature and the making of it.A look at contemporary global fiction with an eye for the influence of Franz Kafka (1883-1924). Investigates how and why current writers from around the world have acknowledged Kafka’s work as they have engaged with themes of modern alienation, modes of magical realism, ideas of existence’s absurdity, images of arbitrary authoritarian power, and questions of human/animal difference. Considers what it means for a writer to spawn an adjective as well as whether an international literary world grown ever more Kafka friendly is necessarily evidence of a world grown ever more Kafkaesque. Authors, in addition to Kafka, may include Jorge Luis Borges, Italo Calvino, Can Xue, J. M. Coetzee, Yiyun Li, Haruki Murakami, and Jonathan Tel.Examines some of the formal features of narrative: plot, character development, point of view, the role of the reader, and closure, arguing that short stories have different requirements of economy than longer narratives. Emphasizing Gothic elements and representations of transgression, power, secrets, dysfunctionality, and domestic arrangements, authors may include Tessa Hadley, Alice Munro, Colm Toibin, William Trevor, and Claire Keegan.Practice in developing the skills needed to write and revise college-level expository essays. Explores the close relationship between critical reading and writing. Assignment sequences and different modes of analysis and response enable students to write fully developed expository essays. Does not count toward the major or minor in English.Practice in developing the skills needed to write and revise college-level expository essays. Explores the close relationship between critical reading and writing. Assignment sequences and different modes of analysis and response enable students to write fully developed expository essays. Does not count toward the major or minor in English.Aims to understand poetry’s varied workings, considering, most extensively, the basic materials—words, lines, metaphors, sentences—from which poems have traditionally been assembled. By studying closely the components of meter, diction, syntax and line, rhyme, and figure—in essence, how poems work—aims to see more clearly into the ends poems work for: meaning, rhapsody, transport, etc.Begins with an examination of some technical aspects of fiction writing. In particular, considers those that we tend to take for granted as readers and need to understand better as writers, e.g., point of view, characterization, dialogue, foreshadowing, scene, and summary. Students read and discuss published stories, and work through a series of exercises to write their own stories. Workshop discussion is an integral part.Explores a range of creative nonfiction from the personal essay to new journalism with an emphasis on the elements of structure, voice, and style. Students will read and discuss published nonfiction and write their own narratives. Students are expected to fully participate in weekly workshop discussions.Seminar. Explores the resiliency of fairy tales across cultural boundaries and historical time. Traces the genealogical origins of the classic tales, as well as their metamorphoses in historical and contemporary variants, fractured tales, and adaptations in literature and film. Engages a spectrum of related texts in literary and cultural theory and criticism.Seminar. Examines the development of literary Realism in English letters. Considers the wider movement in the arts, in particular the visual arts, taking into account, in photography, for example, the scientific propositions that underlie certain theories of the “real” or “objective reality.” Touches on theoretical debates surrounding the genre. Authors may include Ruskin, Dickens, Hardy, Peter Brooks, Virginia Woolf, Sherwood Anderson, Susan Sontag, Erich Auerbach, Lorrie Moore, and Frederick Wiseman.Introduces students to the literature of medieval Britain, excluding Chaucer. Begins with the first poem ever written in English (or rather Old English), continues through tribal sagas (Beowulf, the Welsh Mabinogian, the Irish Tain) and Arthurian romances (the Lais of Marie de France, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight), and concludes with extensive coverage of the literature of the fifteenth century: mystical theology (The Showings of Julian of Norwich, The Cloud of Unknowing), gory martyrdoms (Christina the Astonishing, the York Passion Play), lyric poetry ranging from the numinous to the obscene (anonymous and by poets including Dunbar and Skelton), the global travel narrative of Sir John Mandeville, and tales of Robin Hood. Students will gain a very rudimentary ability to translate Old English as well as reading proficiency in Middle English. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majors.Examines A Midsummer Night’s Dream, The Merchant of Venice, Twelfth Night, As You Like It, The Winter’s Tale, and The Tempest in light of Renaissance genre theory. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majors.Explores the explosion of popular drama in London following the construction of the first permanent theaters in the 1560s. Pays special attention to the forms of drama that audiences liked best—those portraying revenge, marriage, middle-class ascendancy, and adultery. Topics include the cultural space of the theater, the structure of playing companies, and the cultivation of blank verse as a vehicle for theatrical expression. Students will master the styles of different playwrights, examine the topography of the Globe theater, and try out different staging techniques. Authors include Shakespeare, Thomas Kyd, Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson, and Thomas Middleton. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majors.A critical study of Milton’s major works in poetry and prose, with special emphasis on Paradise Lost. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majors.Examines the attack on and defense of common right in the era of the Industrial Revolution in England. Discusses historical phenomena such as food riots, the enclosure of commons, the Luddite protests, the emergence of a mass radical movement, the massacre at Peterloo, and the formation of modern class relations. Focuses on radical poems by plebeians, artisans, and elite writers (Blake, Spence, Hone, Shelley, Clare), writings of the Luddites, popular radical journalism (Cobbett), and pivotal texts in the history of political and economic thought (Burke, Malthus, Marx), alongside readings in history and cultural theory.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the cruxes of the “modern,” and the term’s shift into a conceptual category rather than a temporal designation. Although not confined to a particular national or generic rubric, takes British works as a focus. Organized by movements or critical formations of the modern, i.e., modernisms, psychoanalysis, postmodernism, cultural critique. Readings of critical literature in conjunction with primary texts. Authors/directors/works may include T. S. Eliot, Joyce’s Dubliners, Lawrence’s Sons and Lovers, Sontag’s On Photography, W. G. Sebald’s The Natural History of Destruction, Ian McEwen’s Enduring Love, Stevie Smith, Kureishi’s My Son the Fanatic, and Coetzee’s Disgrace.Explores the creation, representation, and marketing of U.S. Latino/a identities in American literature and popular culture from the 1960s. Focuses on the experience of artists and writers of Puerto Rican, Cuban, and Dominican origin; their negotiations with notions of race, class, gender, and sexuality in the United States; and their role in the struggle for social rights, in cultural translation, and in the marketing of ethnic identities, as portrayed in a variety of works ranging from movies and songs to poetry and narrative. Authors include Pietri, Blades, Álvarez, Hijuelos, Braschi, Ovejas, Díaz, and Quiñones. Readings and writing in English, discussions in Spanish. Spanish speaking skills required.Explores the creation, representation and marketing of U.S. Latino/a identities in American literature and popular culture from the 1960s. Focuses on the experience of artists and writers of Puerto Rican, Cuban, and Dominican origin, their negotiations with notions of race, class, gender, and sexuality in the United States, their role in the struggle for social rights, in cultural translation, and in the marketing of ethnic identities, as portrayed in a variety of works ranging from movies and songs to poetry and narrative. Authors include Pietri, Blades, Álvarez, Hijuelos, Braschi, Ovejas, Díaz, and Quiñones. Readings in English, discussions and writing in Spanish.Explores rich traditions of African American humor in fiction, comics, graphic narratives, and film. Considers strategies of cultural survival and liberation, as well as folkloric sources, trickster storytellers, comic double-voicing, and the lampooning of racial ideologies. Close attention paid to modes of burlesque, satirical deformation, caricature, tragicomedy, and parody in historical and contemporary contexts, including such writers and performers as Charles Chesnutt, Bert Williams, Langston Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston, Richard Pryor, Ishmael Reed, Aaron McGruder, Dave Chappelle, and Suzan-Lori Parks. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.How does the concept of “queerness” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for racial equality? And vice versa, how does the concept of “racialization” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for LGBT recognition and justice? While some of this work tends to reduce “queer” to traditional sexual minorities like lesbigay and trans folk while downplaying racial considerations, others tend to limit the category “race” to people of color like blacks while downplaying questions about sexuality. Such critical and creative gestures often place “queer” and “race” in opposition rather than as intersecting phenomena. Students examine the theoretical and cultural assumptions of such gestures, and their implications, through close readings of selected works in both the LGBT and African American literary traditions. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Considers the changing philosophical and political significance of representations of the animal and of human/animal interactions in modern and contemporary literature. Focuses on global fiction and investigates the role of the animal in the theories and philosophies of psychoanalysis, biopolitics, shamanism, and animism.Focuses on Asian American experiences from an interdisciplinary perspective, including history, English, Asian Studies, and sociology. Examines major issues in the experience of Asian Americans including immigration, the politics of racial/ethnic formation and identity, the political and economic forces that have shaped the lives of Asians in the U.S., historical experiences and influences on today's situation, and ways that Asian Americans have resisted and accommodated these influences. Uses a variety of lenses to gain critical perspective, including history, social relations and practices, and cultural production.Builds upon the method of studying and crafting poetry encountered in English 1225 125. Students exposed to advanced methods of writing and interpretation, including the in-depth study of one particular poet’s oeuvre and evolution. Students encouraged to develop a more comprehensive view of their own individual poetic practices. Each week students responsible for evaluating the assigned reading and for writing poems.Seminar. What makes a work of literature “black”? Is it the fact that its author can be clearly identified in racial terms, its subject matter, or its main characters? What if only one of these things can be determined, but not the others? How have the passing of Jim Crow segregation, the election of the first African American president, and changing racial norms impacted the coherence and legibility of the African American literary tradition? Students engage scholarly debates on these matters, as well as analyze past and present works of literature that aid us in examining some of the key assumptions that have (re)defined the field, including questions of literary mode, genre, and style. Possible authors include Toni Morrison, Percival Everett, Colson Whitehead, Debra Dickerson, among others.Seminar. Examines Austen’s major works, from Northanger Abbey to Persuasion, by pairing each novel either with a work by one of her major literary influences (such as Frances Burney’s Evelina and Ann Radcliffe’s The Romance of the Forest), or with a later work (such as Charlotte Bronte’s Jane Eyre) that responds to and challenges Austen’s own novelistic practice. Will also examine major currents in Austen criticism.Why is the global climate changing and how will biological systems respond? This course includes sections on climate systems and climate change, reconstructing ancient climates and past biological responses, predicting future climates and biological responses, climate policy, the energy crisis, and potential solutions. Includes a few field trips and laboratories designed to illustrate approaches to climate change science at the cellular, physiological, and ecological levels.Why is the global climate changing and how will biological systems respond? This course includes sections on climate systems and climate change, reconstructing ancient climates and past biological responses, predicting future climates and biological responses, climate policy, the energy crisis, and potential solutions. Includes a few field trips and laboratories designed to illustrate approaches to climate change science at the cellular, physiological, and ecological levels.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.An interdisciplinary introduction from the perspectives of the natural sciences, the social sciences, and moral philosophy to the variety of environmental problems confronting us today. Provides an overview of the state of scientific knowledge about major environmental problems, both global and regional, an analysis of the ethical problems they pose, potential responses of governments and individuals, and an exploration of both the successes and the inadequacies of environmental policy. Topics include air pollution, fisheries, and biodiversity and ecosystems as well as global population, climate change, energy, and sustainability.Geographical information systems (GIS) organize and store spatial information for geographical presentation and analysis. They allow rapid development of high-quality maps, and enable powerful and sophisticated investigation of spatial patterns and interrelationships. Introduces concepts of cartography, database management, remote sensing, and spatial analysis. The productive use of GIS technology in the physical and social sciences, environmental management, and regional planning is investigated through a variety of applied exercises and problems culminating in a semester project that addresses a specific environmental application.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week.Understanding global change requires knowing how the biosphere, geosphere, oceans, ice, and atmosphere interact. An introduction to earth system science, emphasizing the critical interplay between the physical and living worlds. Key processes include energy flow and material cycles, soil development, primary production and decomposition, microbial ecology and nutrient transformations, and the evolution of life on geochemical cycles in deep time. Terrestrial, wetland, lake, river, estuary, and marine systems are analyzed comparatively. Applied issues are emphasized as case studies, including energy efficiency of food production, acid rain impacts on forests and aquatic systems, forest clearcutting, wetland delineation, eutrophication of coastal estuaries, ocean fertilization, and global carbon sinks. Lectures and three hours of laboratory or fieldwork per week. An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.An introduction to the physiological processes that enable plants to grow under the varied conditions found in nature. General topics discussed include the acquisition, transport, and use of water and mineral nutrients, photosynthetic carbon assimilation, and the influence of environmental and hormonal signals on development and morphology. Adaptation and acclimation to extreme environments and other ecophysiological subjects are also discussed. Weekly laboratories reinforce principles discussed in lecture and expose students to modern research techniques.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.People rely on nature for food, materials, medicines, and recreation; yet the fate of Earth’s biodiversity is rarely given priority among the many pressing problems facing humanity today. Explores the interactions within and among populations of plants, animals, and microorganisms, and the mechanisms by which those interactions are regulated by the physical and chemical environment. Major themes are biodiversity and the processes that maintain biodiversity, the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem function, and the science underlying conservation efforts. Laboratory sessions consist of student research, local field trips, laboratory exercises, and discussions of current and classic ecological literature.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.The study of the biology and ecology of marine mammals, seabirds, fish, intertidal and subtidal invertebrates, algae, and plankton. Also considers the biogeographic consequences of global and local ocean currents on the evolution and ecology of marine organisms. Laboratories, field trips, and research projects emphasize natural history, functional morphology, and ecology. Lectures and four hours of laboratory or field trip per week. One weekend field trip included.A mathematically rigorous analysis of the motions of the atmosphere and oceans on a variety of spatial and temporal scales. Covers fluid dynamics in inertial and rotating reference frames, as well as global and local energy balance, applied to the coupled ocean-atmosphere system.Introduces key biological concepts that are essential for understanding conservation issues. Explores biodiversity in the world’s major marine ecosystems; the mechanisms of biodiversity loss at the genetic, species, and ecosystem levels; and the properties of marine systems that pose unique conservation challenges. Investigates the theory and practice of marine biodiversity conservation, focusing on the interactions among ecology, economics, and public policy. Consists of lecture/discussion, lab, field trips, guest seminars by professionals working in the field, and student-selected case studies.Introduces key biological concepts that are essential for understanding conservation issues. Explores biodiversity in the world’s major marine ecosystems; the mechanisms of biodiversity loss at the genetic, species, and ecosystem levels; and the properties of marine systems that pose unique conservation challenges. Investigates the theory and practice of marine biodiversity conservation, focusing on the interactions among ecology, economics, and public policy. Consists of lecture/discussion, lab, field trips, guest seminars by professionals working in the field, and student-selected case studies.Compares and contrasts the tectonic evolution, geography, climate, glaciers and sea ice, ocean circulation and ocean biology of the Arctic and Antarctic regions. Emphasis on the polar regions’ role in global climate regulation and the sensitivity of these regions to climate change. In addition to scientific readings (text book chapters and journal articles), students read an array of first-hand accounts of polar exploration from the turn of the twentieth century.Critical examination of some of the most important American environmental laws and their application to environmental problems that affect the United States and the world. Students learn what the law currently requires and how it is administered by federal and state agencies, and are encouraged to examine the effectiveness of current law and consider alternative approaches.Examines the political, legal, and institutional dimension of international efforts to protect the environment. Problems discussed include transboundary and marine pollution, maintaining biodiversity, and global climate change.An introduction to the major issues in the study of population. Focuses on the social aspects of the demographic processes of fertility, mortality, and migration. Also examines population change in Western Europe historically, recent demographic changes in Third World countries, population policy, and the social and environmental causes and implications of changes in births, deaths, and migration.One critique of K-12 schooling is that it separates the learning happening within the school walls from the places people inhabit. Place-based education is a form of education that seeks to connect students' learning with the community and the local natural and built environment. This course explores the history, theory, and practice of place-based education with special attention given to the prospects and challenges of using this framework in formal K-12 educational settings. Instruction models tenets of place-based pedagogy to actively engage participants in learning about the course material and the community in which we reside.Explores how the radical interconnectedness postulated by ecological thinking can be read in Latin American narrative, essay, film, and poetry from the 1920s to the present. Includes a review of cultural ecology as well as an overview of environmental history and activism in the region.Every year, 300 million tons of synthetic organic chemicals enter natural waters. This seminar examines the fate of organic contaminants in aquatic environments. We will use chemical structures and properties to predict contaminant partitioning, biodegradation, and transport, and evaluate the implications for human health and aquatic ecosystems. Case studies on endocrine disrupting chemicals, oil spills, and pharmaceuticals will allow us to critically examine inherent tensions between compound-specific chemical analyses and toxicity bioassays, between studies of single-compounds and complex mixtures, and between empirical and predictive approaches.Explores the American Civil War through an examination of popular films dedicated to the topic. Students analyze films as a representation of the past, considering not simply their historical subject matter, but also the cultural and political contexts in which they are made. Films include The Birth of a Nation, Gone with the Wind, Glory, and Cold Mountain. Weekly evening film screenings.Explores the American Civil War through an examination of popular films dedicated to the topic. Students analyze films as a representation of the past, considering not simply their historical subject matter, but also the cultural and political contexts in which they are made. Films include The Birth of a Nation, Gone with the Wind, Glory, and Cold Mountain. Weekly evening film screenings.Explores East Asian cinema from a genre perspective with a focus on Hong Kong action, Japanese anime, and transnational martial arts films. In the framework of social-cultural history and context of genre theory, the course examines the paradigms that characterize the form and content of such films; investigates the relations between local-global and national-transnational; studies genre-specific issues such as spectators’ perception or industry practices to discern the role of gender, nation, power, and historiography. After taking the course, students will be able to explain the theoretical concepts of genre cinema, analyze the genre’s visual formation, and comprehend the social-cultural implications of the genre.Explores East Asian cinema from a genre perspective with a focus on Hong Kong action, Japanese anime, and transnational martial arts films. In the framework of social-cultural history and context of genre theory, the course examines the paradigms that characterize the form and content of such films; investigates the relations between local-global and national-transnational; studies genre-specific issues such as spectators’ perception or industry practices to discern the role of gender, nation, power, and historiography. After taking the course, students will be able to explain the theoretical concepts of genre cinema, analyze the genre’s visual formation, and comprehend the social-cultural implications of the genre.An introduction to a variety of methods used to study motion pictures, with consideration given to films from different countries and time periods. Examines techniques and strategies used to construct films, including mise-en-scène, editing, sound, and the orchestration of film techniques in larger formal systems. Surveys some of the contextual factors shaping individual films and our experiences of them (including mode of production, genre, authorship, and ideology). No previous experience with film studies is required. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.An examination of the literary treatment of the Holocaust, a period between 1933 and 1945, during which eleven million innocent people were systematically murdered by the Nazis. Four different literary genres are examined: the diary and memoir, drama, poetry, and the novel. Three basic sets of questions are raised by the course: How could such slaughter take place in the twentieth century? To what extent is literature capable of evoking this period and what different aspects of the Holocaust are stressed by the different genres? What can our study of the Holocaust teach us with regard to contemporary issues surrounding totalitarianism and racism? No knowledge of German is required.Examines the development of film from its origins to the American studio era. Includes early work by the Lumières, Méliès, and Porter, and continues with Griffith, Murnau, Eisenstein, Chaplin, Keaton, Stroheim, Pudovkin, Lang, Renoir, and von Sternberg. Special attention is paid to the practical and theoretical concerns over the coming of sound. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.Examines contemporary social and political activism in India. Focuses on film, essays, and fiction to investigate the ways that political messages are constructed through different media and for specific audiences. Case studies include activism concerning religious conflict, gender inequalities, gay and lesbian identities, and environmental issues.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Considers the flowering of German cinema during the Weimar Republic and its enormous impact on American film. Examines work produced in Germany from 1919 to 1933, the films made by German expatriates in Hollywood after Hitler’s rise to power, and the wide influence of the expressionist tradition in the following decades. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.A study of the basic forms, structures, and vocabulary. Emphasis on listening comprehension and spoken French. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant, plus regular language laboratory assignments. Primarily open to first- and second-year students who have had two years or less of high school French. A limited number of spaces are available for juniors and seniors.A review of basic grammar, which is integrated into more complex patterns of written and spoken French. Short compositions and class discussions require active use of students’ acquired knowledge of French. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with teaching fellow.A review of basic grammar, which is integrated into more complex patterns of written and spoken French. Short compositions and class discussions require active use of students’ acquired knowledge of French. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with teaching fellow.An introduction to film analysis. Conversation and composition based on a variety of contemporary French and Francophone films. Grammar review and frequent short papers. Emphasis on student participation including short presentations and a variety of oral activities. Three hours per week plus one weekly viewing session for films and weekly conversation session with teaching fellow.An introduction to film analysis. Conversation and composition based on a variety of contemporary French and Francophone films. Grammar review and frequent short papers. Emphasis on student participation including short presentations and a variety of oral activities. Three hours per week plus one weekly viewing session for films and weekly conversation session with teaching fellow.An introduction to the cultures of various French-speaking regions outside of France. Examines the history, politics, customs, cinema, and the arts of the Francophone world, principally Africa and the Caribbean.An introduction to the literary tradition of France from the Middle Ages to the French Revolution. Students are introduced to major authors and literary movements in their cultural and historical contexts.A study of memoir novels, epistolary novels (letters), and autobiography. What does writing have to do with love and desire? What is the role of others in the seemingly personal act of “self-expression”? What is the truth value of writing that circulates in the absence of its author? These and other related issues are explored in the works of the most popular writers of eighteenth-century France: Prévost, Graffigny, Laclos, and Rousseau. Conducted in French.The occult is, by definition, that which is hidden or unknown, yet popular and scholarly fascination with the shadowy and uncertain worlds of witches, monsters, demons, the devil, and the mysteries of nature and the cosmos has fueled attempts by various authorities, writers, and artists to represent and thus to know, control, or exploit the spectacular potential of the occult. Explores early modern and modern representations of occult figures, events, practitioners, and practices in France through historical, literary, and journalistic readings, art, film, television, and the Web. Emphasis is placed on the early modern period, but analysis of modern inheritances and interest in the occult parallel investigation of earlier periods throughout the course. Conducted in French.An introduction to the materials, major themes, and defining methodologies of gay and lesbian studies. Considers in detail both the most visible contemporary dilemmas involving homosexuality (queer presence in pop culture, civil rights legislation, gay-bashing, AIDS, identity politics) as well as the great variety of interpretive approaches these dilemmas have, in recent years, summoned into being. Such approaches borrow from the scholarly practices of literary and artistic exegesis, history, political science, feminist theory, and psychoanalysis—to name only a few. An abiding concern over the semester is to discover how a discipline so variously influenced conceives of and maintains its own intellectual borders. Course materials include scholarly essays, journalism, films, novels, and a number of lectures by visiting faculty.Seminar. America is an urban nation today, yet Americans have had deeply ambivalent feelings toward the city over time. Explores the historical origins of that ambivalence by tracing several overarching themes in American urban history from the seventeenth century to the present. Topics include race and class relations, labor, design and planning, gender and sexual identity, immigration, politics and policy, scientific and technological systems, violence and crime, religion and sectarian disputes, and environmental protection. Discussions revolve around these broad themes, as well as regional distinctions between American cities. Students are required to write several short papers and one longer paper based upon primary and secondary sources.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the cruxes of the “modern,” and the term’s shift into a conceptual category rather than a temporal designation. Although not confined to a particular national or generic rubric, takes British works as a focus. Organized by movements or critical formations of the modern, i.e., modernisms, psychoanalysis, postmodernism, cultural critique. Readings of critical literature in conjunction with primary texts. Authors/directors/works may include T. S. Eliot, Joyce’s Dubliners, Lawrence’s Sons and Lovers, Sontag’s On Photography, W. G. Sebald’s The Natural History of Destruction, Ian McEwen’s Enduring Love, Stevie Smith, Kureishi’s My Son the Fanatic, and Coetzee’s Disgrace.How does the concept of “queerness” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for racial equality? And vice versa, how does the concept of “racialization” signify in cultural texts that are ostensibly about the struggle for LGBT recognition and justice? While some of this work tends to reduce “queer” to traditional sexual minorities like lesbigay and trans folk while downplaying racial considerations, others tend to limit the category “race” to people of color like blacks while downplaying questions about sexuality. Such critical and creative gestures often place “queer” and “race” in opposition rather than as intersecting phenomena. Students examine the theoretical and cultural assumptions of such gestures, and their implications, through close readings of selected works in both the LGBT and African American literary traditions. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Explores the variety of practices, performances, and ideologies of sexuality through a cross-cultural perspective. Focusing on contemporary anthropological scholarship on sexuality and gender, asks how Western conceptions of “sexuality,” “sex,” and “gender” help (or hinder) our understanding of the lives and desires of people in other social and cultural contexts. Topics may include “third gendered” individuals; intersexuality and the naturalization of sex; language and the performance of sexuality; drag; global media and the construction of identity; lesbian and gay families; sex work; AIDS and HIV and health policy; migration, asylum and human rights issues; ethical issues and activism. Ethnographic examples are drawn from United States, Latin America (Brazil, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Argentina, Cuba); Asia (India, Japan, Indonesia) and Oceania (Papua New Guinea); and Africa (Nigeria, S. Africa). Presents issues of contemporary significance along with key theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches used by anthropologists. Integrates perspectives on globalization and the intersection of multiple social differences (including class, race, and ethnicity) with discussion of sexuality and gender. Not open to students with credit in Anthropology 210 (same as Gay and Lesbian Studies 210, Gender and Women’s Studies 210 and Latin American Studies 211.)Where are you from? How does the place you’re born and raised inform your consciousness? Novels answer these questions more fully and deeply than any other kind of writing. Investigates psychological, spiritual, cultural, historical, and political meanings of home. Students read novels, stories, and essays in which place is itself a character. Questions include: How do writers create vivid, palpable places? How does a book’s setting illuminate the (often secret) lives of its characters? Special focus on the coastline, on water, and on shape-shifting landscapes that draw attention to shifting identities. Through critical and creative assignments, students analyze creative prose and write their own. By experimenting with various stylistic techniques, and by visiting sites along the Maine coast, participants seek to document past homes in a new way—and to experience a new place as home. Readings may include Virginia Woolf, Denton Welsh, James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, Annie Dillard, Marilynn Robinson, Jamaica Kincaid, Bonnie Nadzam, Eowyn Ivy, and others.Recently, women have begun to claim power formerly held by men. Yet in politics, work, and the family, women are so often unable to pass down power from one woman to the next—with the effect that the search for women’s equality seems to begin anew with every generation. How to explain this inability to create a “mother-daughter” succession? And why does “sisterhood” so often turn poisonous? Explores feminism's generational breakdown from a variety of perspectives—political, cultural, psychological—and traces its roots in history, from Republican Motherhood to radical feminism to Facebook’s “Lean In” circles.Focuses on the lives and works of path-breaking women who defied the norms of modern European society in order to assume extraordinary and often controversial identities in a range of fields—as writers, scientists, performers, athletes, soldiers, and social and political activists. What does each woman’s “deviance” reveal about cultural constructions of identity and the self in Modern Europe? About contemporary views on issues such as women’s work, gender relations, education, marriage, sexuality, motherhood, health, and the struggle for civil and political rights? And when studied together, what do these women’s experiences tell us about patterns of change and continuity with respect to definitions of masculinity vs. femininity, the public vs. private sphere, and the relationship of the individual to the modern state?An interdisciplinary introduction to the issues, perspectives, and findings of the new scholarship that examines the role of gender in the construction of knowledge. Explores what happens when women become the subjects of study; what is learned about women; what is learned about gender; and how disciplinary knowledge itself is changed. Dancing is a fundamental human activity, a mode of communication, and a basic force in social life. Investigates dance and movement in the studio and classroom as aesthetic and cultural phenomena. Explores how dance and movement activities reveal information about cultural norms and values and affect perspectives in our own and other societies. Using ethnographic methods, focuses on how dancing maintains and creates conceptions of one’s own body, gender relationships, and personal and community identities. Experiments with dance and movement forms from different cultures and epochs—for example, the hula, New England contradance, classical Indian dance, Balkan kolos, ballet, contact improvisation, and African American dance forms from swing to hip-hop—through readings, performances, workshops in the studio, and field work.The history of women’s studies and its transformation into gender studies and feminist theory has always included a tension between creating “woman,” and political and theoretical challenges to that unity. Examines that tension in two dimensions: the development of critical perspectives on gender and power relations both within existing fields of knowledge, and within the continuous evolution of feminist discourse itself.An introduction to the major issues in the study of population. Focuses on the social aspects of the demographic processes of fertility, mortality, and migration. Also examines population change in Western Europe historically, recent demographic changes in Third World countries, population policy, and the social and environmental causes and implications of changes in births, deaths, and migration.Examines the cruxes of the “modern,” and the term’s shift into a conceptual category rather than a temporal designation. Although not confined to a particular national or generic rubric, takes British works as a focus. Organized by movements or critical formations of the modern, i.e., modernisms, psychoanalysis, postmodernism, cultural critique. Readings of critical literature in conjunction with primary texts. Authors/directors/works may include T. S. Eliot, Joyce’s Dubliners, Lawrence’s Sons and Lovers, Sontag’s On Photography, W. G. Sebald’s The Natural History of Destruction, Ian McEwen’s Enduring Love, Stevie Smith, Kureishi’s My Son the Fanatic, and Coetzee’s Disgrace.Examines contemporary social and political activism in India. Focuses on film, essays, and fiction to investigate the ways that political messages are constructed through different media and for specific audiences. Case studies include activism concerning religious conflict, gender inequalities, gay and lesbian identities, and environmental issues.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Examines the genre of the horror film in a range of cultural, theoretical, and literary contexts. Considers the ways in which horror films represent violence, fear, and paranoia; their creation of identity categories; their intersection with contemporary politics; and their participation in such major literary and cinematic genres as the gothic, comedy, and family drama. Texts may include works by Craven, Cronenberg, De Palma, Freud, Hitchcock, Kristeva, Kubrick, Poe, Romero, and Shelley.Seminar. Women's emancipation and sexual freedom were common themes among utopian socialists, anarchists, and other radical left communities in the United States and Europe in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Sexual equality was also a bedrock principle of “scientific socialist” and communist societies throughout the twentieth century. Explores how a variety of communalist ideologies re-imagined the shape of the family and the gender relations between men and women. Examines the theoretical foundations and practical implications of sexual equality through a detailed history of a wide variety of ideological movements, including Owenism, anarchism, utopian socialism, scientific socialism, and “really-existing” socialism in the twentieth century. Special attention paid to the ongoing tensions between theory and practice.Seminar. Examines Austen’s major works, from Northanger Abbey to Persuasion, by pairing each novel either with a work by one of her major literary influences (such as Frances Burney’s Evelina and Ann Radcliffe’s The Romance of the Forest), or with a later work (such as Charlotte Bronte’s Jane Eyre) that responds to and challenges Austen’s own novelistic practice. Will also examine major currents in Austen criticism.Explores the variety of practices, performances, and ideologies of sexuality through a cross-cultural perspective. Focusing on contemporary anthropological scholarship on sexuality and gender, asks how Western conceptions of “sexuality,” “sex,” and “gender” help (or hinder) our understanding of the lives and desires of people in other social and cultural contexts. Topics may include “third gendered” individuals; intersexuality and the naturalization of sex; language and the performance of sexuality; drag; global media and the construction of identity; lesbian and gay families; sex work; AIDS and HIV and health policy; migration, asylum and human rights issues; ethical issues and activism. Ethnographic examples are drawn from United States, Latin America (Brazil, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Argentina, Cuba); Asia (India, Japan, Indonesia) and Oceania (Papua New Guinea); and Africa (Nigeria, S. Africa). Presents issues of contemporary significance along with key theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches used by anthropologists. Integrates perspectives on globalization and the intersection of multiple social differences (including class, race, and ethnicity) with discussion of sexuality and gender. Not open to students with credit in Anthropology 210 (same as Gay and Lesbian Studies 210, Gender and Women’s Studies 210 and Latin American Studies 211.)Seminar. Microeconomic analysis of the family—gender roles and related institutions. Topics include marriage, fertility, married women’s labor supply, divorce, and the family as an economic organization.Focuses on the literal and metaphorical practices of “dressing” and “undressing” as depicted in the literature of Early Modern Spain. Considers how these practices relate to the (de)construction of Gender and Empire throughout the period. What does dress have to do with identity and power? What might nakedness reveal about ideal and defective bodies? These questions will be enriched through exploration of a series of images in collaboration with the Bowdoin College Museum of Art. Authors considered during the semester include Fernando de Rojas, Miguel de Cervantes, María de Zayas, Teresa de Jesús, Tirso de Molina, and Ana Caro.German 1101 101 is the first course in German language and culture and is open to all students without prerequisite. Facilitates an understanding of culture through language. Introduces German history and cultural topics. Three hours per week. Acquisition of four skills: speaking and understanding, reading, and writing. One hour of conversation and practice with teaching assistant. Integrated Language Media Center work.German 1101 101 is the first course in German language and culture and is open to all students without prerequisite. Facilitates an understanding of culture through language. Introduces German history and cultural topics. Three hours per week. Acquisition of four skills: speaking and understanding, reading, and writing. One hour of conversation and practice with teaching assistant. Integrated Language Media Center work.An examination of the literary treatment of the Holocaust, a period between 1933 and 1945, during which eleven million innocent people were systematically murdered by the Nazis. Four different literary genres are examined: the diary and memoir, drama, poetry, and the novel. Three basic sets of questions are raised by the course: How could such slaughter take place in the twentieth century? To what extent is literature capable of evoking this period and what different aspects of the Holocaust are stressed by the different genres? What can our study of the Holocaust teach us with regard to contemporary issues surrounding totalitarianism and racism? No knowledge of German is required.Continued emphasis on the understanding of German culture through language. Focus on social and cultural topics through history, literature, politics, popular culture, and the arts. Three hours per week of reading, speaking, and writing. One hour of discussion and practice with teaching assistant. Language laboratory also available. Equivalent of German 1102 102 is required.Continued emphasis on the understanding of German culture through language. Focus on social and cultural topics through history, literature, politics, popular culture, and the arts. Three hours per week of reading, speaking, and writing. One hour of discussion and practice with teaching assistant. Language laboratory also available. Equivalent of German 1102 102 is required.Designed to explore aspects of German culture in depth, to deepen the understanding of culture through language, and to increase facility in speaking, writing, reading, and comprehension. Topics include post-war and/or post-unification themes in historical and cross-cultural contexts. Particular emphasis on post-1990 German youth culture and language. Includes fiction writing, film, music, and various news media. Weekly individual sessions with the Teaching Fellow from the Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität-Mainz. Equivalent of German 2204 204 is required.Focus on the mid-to late eighteenth century as an age of contradictory impulses (e.g., the youthful revolt of Storm and Stress against the Age of Reason). Examines manifestations of such impulses—e.g., ghosts, love, and other transgressions—in the works of major (e.g., Goethe, Schiller) and less well–known (e.g., Karsch, Forster) authors . Beginning with discussions of transparency, examines the ghostly and spiritual moments of "Faustian bargains" (Goethe's Urfaust), transgressive desires in poetry, travel texts, and love letters as well as in secret societies, and concludes with emergent, phantasmic technologies (Schiller's Geisterseher) and manifestations of the irrational in nature's chaos (Kleist Das Erdbeben in Chili). Investigation of texts in their broader cultural context with appropriate theory and illustrated through film and drama on video, statistical data, developments in eighteenth-century dance, music, and legal discourse." All materials and coursework in German.The fall of the Berlin Wall and the concomitant end of the Cold War ushered in what many cultural critics call “the era of globalization.” An exploration of how contemporary German culture (1990–present) grapples with both the possibilities and uncertainties presented by globalization. Examines a myriad of cultural texts—films, audio plays, dramas, short fiction, novels, photographs, websites—as well as mass events (i.e., the Love Parade, the 2006 World Cup) within their political, social, and economic contexts to show how Germany’s troubled past continues to affect the role it plays on the global stage and how its changing demographics—increased urbanization and ethnic diversity—have altered its cultural and literary landscape. Critically considers issues such as migration, terrorism and genocide, sex tourism, the formation of the European Union and the supposed decline of the nation-state. Frequent short writings, participation in debates, and a final research project based upon a relevant topic of individual interest are required. All materials and course work in German.An introductory seminar in American national politics. Readings, papers, and discussion explore the changing nature of power and participation in the American polity, with a focus on the interaction between individuals (non-voters, voters, party leaders, members of Congress, the President) and political institutions (parties, Congress, the executive branch, the judiciary). Not open to students who have credit for or are concurrently taking Government 1100 150.We talk about political leadership all the time, mostly to complain about its absence. Leadership is surely one of the key elements of politics, but what does it mean? Do we know it when we see it? What kinds of leaders do we have, and what kinds do we want? How do modern democratic conceptions of governance mesh with older visions of authority? Of ethics? Looks both at real world case studies and the treatment of leadership in literature. Offers a wide variety of perspectives on leadership and the opportunities and dangers it presents—both for those who want to lead, and for those who are called upon to follow.Explores the fundamental questions in political life: What is justice? What is happiness? Are human beings equal or unequal by nature? Do they even have a nature, or are they “socially constructed”? Are there ethical standards for political action that exist prior to law and, if so, where do they come from? Nature? God? History? Readings may include Plato, Aristotle, the Bible, Machiavelli, Locke, Rousseau, Shakespeare, the American Founders, Tocqueville, and Nietzsche.Explores what may well be the highest political theme: the requirements of great political rule. What must we do in order to govern well? Even more important, what must we know? Should we be guided by the concern for justice—for human rights, for example—or by the sometimes unpleasing demands of what can politely be called “national security”? Does great political leadership in democratic times differ in any important way from that seen in the great nations of the past? With these and related questions in mind, students read, reflect on, and write carefully about a handful of foundational texts that all deal, in very different ways, with the question of the requirements of great political leadership. Readings include Lincoln, Machiavelli, Shakespeare, Xenophon, Plato, the Bible.Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are thought to play a crucial role in politics—monitoring the state, facilitating citizen participation in politics, and articulating policy alternatives. Yet the activities of NGOs vary significantly from one political system to another, most notably differing among developing and developed states and democratic and authoritarian states. In addition, NGOs’ role in the political process is being transformed by globalization and the increasingly transnational nature of political activism. Explores the following questions: How do factors such as a state’s level of economic development, its political culture, the nature of the political regime, and the arrangement of its political institutions shape NGOs’ role and influence in the political process? When and where have NGOs been successful in influencing political developments? How do the growing transnational linkages among NGOs affect their role in domestic politics?Examines the impact of media including the Internet, newspapers, and television, on politics and society in cross-national perspective. Asks how differences in the ownership and regulation of media affect how news is selected and presented, and looks at various forms of government censorship and commercial self-censorship. Also considers the role of the media and “pop culture” in creating national identities, perpetuating ethnic stereotypes, and providing regime legitimation; and explores the impact of satellite television and the Internet on rural societies and authoritarian governments.Examines different strategies for preventing and controlling armed conflict in international society, and emphasizes the role of diplomacy, international law, and international organizations in the peace-making process.The Korean War is often called “the forgotten war” because it is overshadowed by World War II and the Vietnam War, yet many important aspects and results of it are mirrored in the contemporary world. Korea is still divided and its situation as a buffer state between China, Russia, and Japan continues to have important policy ramifications for the United States. Focuses not just on the course of the war, but on the foreign policy assumptions of the two Korean governments, the United States, the People’s Republic of China, and Russia.Provides a broad introduction to the study of international relations. Designed to strike a balance between empirical and historical knowledge and the obligatory theoretical understanding and schools of thought in IR. Designed as an introductory course to familiarize students with no prior background in the subject, and recommended for first- and second-year students intending to take upper-level international relations courses.An examination of the presidency in the American political system, including the “road to the White House” (party nomination process and role of the electoral college), advisory systems, the institutional presidency, relations with Congress and the courts, and decision-making in the White House. Drawing upon the instructor’s own research and a growing body of literature in this area, the role of women as advisors within the White House and executive branch, and influence of outside groups on the White House’s consideration of “women’s issues,” especially since 1960, are also discussed.An examination of the United States Congress, with a focus on members, leaders, constituent relations, the congressional role in the policy-making process, congressional procedures and their impact on policy outcomes, the budget process, and executive-congressional relations.Examines the development of American constitutionalism, the power of judicial review, federalism, and separation of powers.An analysis of politics in the state of Maine since World War II. Subjects covered include the dynamics of Republican and Democratic rivalries and the efficacy of the Independent voter, the rise of the Green and Reform parties, the growing importance of ballot measure initiatives, and the interaction of ethnicity and politics in the Pine Tree State. An analysis of key precincts and Maine voting paradigms is included, as well as a look at the efficacy of such phenomena as the north/south geographic split, the environmental movement, and the impact of such interest groups as SAM, the Tea Party, and the Roman Catholic Church. Students are expected to follow contemporary political events on a regular basis.Examines the role of the media as the “fourth branch” of government. Focuses first on the history of the media throughout American political development, and then examines the role of the media in contemporary politics. Is the media biased? How? What are the effects of media coverage on citizens? What is the interplay of politicians, citizens, and journalists? Spends considerable time on the place of new media outlets such as blogs.A survey of classical political philosophy focusing on four major works: Thucydides’ History of the Peloponnesian War, Plato’s Republic, Aristotle’s Politics, and St. Augustine’s City of God. Examines ancient Greek and early Christian reflections on human nature, justice, the best regime, the relationship of the individual to the political community, the relationship of philosophy to politics, democracy, education, religion, and international relations.An examination of liberal democratic doctrine and of religious, cultural, and radical criticisms of it in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Authors may include Locke, Kant, Burke, Tocqueville, Mill, Marx, and Nietzsche.Analyzes the dynamics of West European political systems, including the varieties of parliamentary and electoral systems and the formation of governments and lawmaking. Addresses contemporary political challenges in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, and other states, considering topics such as institutional reform, welfare state policies, economic growth and unemployment, immigration, relations with the United States, and other foreign policy concerns. The European Union is not examined, as it is a separate course, Government 225: The Politics of the European Union.Examines the Asian communism in China, Vietnam, North Korea, and Mongolia. Asian communism presents a series of fascinating questions. Why did communist revolutions occur in some Asian states but not others? Why were relations between some Asian communist states peaceful while others were hostile? Why did some adopt significant economic reforms while others maintained command economies? Why did communist regimes persist in most Asian states, while it fell in Mongolia and all of Europe? The approach of the course is explicitly comparative and structured around thematic comparisons between the four states.Comprehensive overview of modern Japanese politics in historical, social, and cultural context. Analyzes the electoral dominance of the Liberal Democratic Party, the nature of democratic politics, and the rise and fall of the economy. Other topics include the status of women and ethnic minorities, education, war guilt, nationalism, and the role of the media.Examines the meaning of development from economic and political perspectives. Considers various theories and practices of development that have been applied to newly independent states in Asia, Latin America, and Africa. Investigates why trajectories of economic growth and political stability have been so uneven in different regions of the world. Incorporates views from both external and internal actors on issues such as foreign aid, multilateral institutions, good governance, and democratic participation.Examines the role of language in politics. Governments historically have tried to spread a single language within their populations through education and military conscription. What are the roots of this motivation? Does language standardization deepen the possibility for citizen participation and democracy? How have minority language groups responded? As the right to language has become a global norm, what effects will this have on the cohesiveness of existing states? Will globalization bring with it linguistic fragmentation or the worldwide spread of a few languages such as English, Arabic, and Chinese? Looks at the language question in the United States as well as in cases drawn from Europe, Asia, and Africa. Students will choose a country in which to evaluate the historical and present state of languages and language(s) of state. Topics touched by language will include democracy, state-building, colonization, violence, education, human rights, and globalization.Examines the rough and tumble world of contentious politics, which includes forms of social mobilization as diverse as riots, revolutions, and rebellions. While much of “routine politics” takes place through elections, examines activities that cross over into the extraordinary and asks questions such as: What is the relationship between elections and riots? Why do some revolutionary movements succeed while others fail? Given great personal risks, why do some people protest in dictatorships? How do states respond to protests and why? Examines the commonalities and differences between these diverse events through case studies throughout the developing world, including Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East.Examines the political, legal, and institutional dimension of international efforts to protect the environment. Problems discussed include transboundary and marine pollution, maintaining biodiversity, and global climate change.Examines the development and conduct of United States foreign policy. Analyzes the impact of intragovernmental rivalries, the media, public opinion, and interest groups on the policy-making process, and provides case studies of contemporary foreign policy issues.An in-depth study of the problem of terrorism, including its definition, historical origins and development, specific cases of terrorist organizations, its expansion into a global phenomenon, tactics and strategies, and the question of causes, as well as the issues surrounding counterterrorism’s tactics, strategies, and policy dilemmas.Examines several distinct categories of global crime. Places a strong emphasis on transnational smuggling industries, especially drug, weapons, and human smuggling, as well as several niche smuggling industries, including exotic animals, animal products, human organs, historical artifacts, and toxic waste. Also examines several other categories of global crime, including human trafficking, counterfeits, money laundering, and bribery. Analyzes the role of laws, policies, and social norms in both inadvertently shaping these criminal industries and in attempting to counter them.A continuation of Greek 1101 101; introduces students to more complex grammar and syntax, while emphasizing the development of reading proficiency. Includes readings, both adapted and in the original, of Greek authors such as Plato and Euripides. Focuses on Attic dialect.A continuation of Greek 1101 101; introduces students to more complex grammar and syntax, while emphasizing the development of reading proficiency. Includes readings, both adapted and in the original, of Greek authors such as Plato and Euripides. Focuses on Attic dialect.An introduction to the poetry of Homer. Focuses both on reading and on interpreting Homeric epic.Focuses on the lives and works of path-breaking women who defied the norms of modern European society in order to assume extraordinary and often controversial identities in a range of fields—as writers, scientists, performers, athletes, soldiers, and social and political activists. What does each woman’s “deviance” reveal about cultural constructions of identity and the self in Modern Europe? About contemporary views on issues such as women’s work, gender relations, education, marriage, sexuality, motherhood, health, and the struggle for civil and political rights? And when studied together, what do these women’s experiences tell us about patterns of change and continuity with respect to definitions of masculinity vs. femininity, the public vs. private sphere, and the relationship of the individual to the modern state? 