Examines Black American sacred music from its earliest forms, fashioned by enslaved Africans, through current iterations, produced by Black global actors of a different sort. What does bondage sound like? What does emancipation sound like? Can we hear corresponding sounds generated by artists today? In what ways have creators of sacred music embraced, rejected, and re-envisioned the "strange land" over time? Looks at musical and lyrical content and the context in which various music genres developed, such as Negro spirituals, gospel, and sacred blues. Contemporary artists such as Janelle Mone, Beyonc and Lupe Fiasco included as well.Combines dance history, embodied research, and performance. Students engage in readings, class discussions, and movement studies that allow them to learn movement techniques from past eras. Students explore connections between cultural values and norms and movement aesthetics, and discover how African American vernacular dance and jazz music influenced jazz forms and American dance throughout the twentieth century (ragtime, swing, hot jazz, and hip-hop). Culminates with a performance in the December Dance Concert. Students meet once a week in a seminar setting to investigate one dance era, such as swing. The next two class meetings take place in a dance studio in order to embody the dance form discussed that week, and include rehearsals.A socio-cultural, historical, and analytical introduction to jazz music from the turn of the 20th century to around 1950. Includes some concert attendance.Explores the history of African Americans from the end of the Civil War to the present. Issues include the promises and failures of Reconstruction, the Jim Crow era, black leadership and protest institutions, African American cultural styles, industrialization and urbanization, the world wars, the Civil Rights Movement, and conservative retrenchment.Seminar. Brazil has the largest population of African descent outside Africa. Nowadays, Brazilians pride themselves on their countrys unique racial and cultural heritage, but it hasnt always been this way. For centuries, many Afro-Brazilian practices were illegal. Now, however, we are in the midst of what might be called an Afro-Brazilian renaissance. This is something to be celebrated, but it is also something to be questioned. Do these efforts to delineate, praise, and preserve Afro-Brazilian culture actually limit our understanding of it? Has labeling certain aspects of Brazilian cultural heritage as African created a situation in which other ways that Africa has influenced Brazil are overlooked? Just what do we mean by African and Brazilian anyhow? Takes a historical and anthropological approach to these and other related questions.Seminar. Pentecostalism is a form of Christianity centered on the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Pentecostals speak in tongues, heal, prophesize, see visions, and exorcise demons. By many accounts, Pentecostalism is the fastest-growing religion in the world. While the Pentecostal population is difficult to count, current estimates place the worlds total number of adherents at close to 600 million, of whom 75% are women. With particular attention to its intersections with gender, ethnicity, and class, explores the religions appeal; its impact on devotees lives; and resultant local, regional, and global implications. Case studies include the Americas, the Caribbean, and Africa.A continuation of modern dance principles introduced in Dance 1211 with the addition of African-derived dance movement. The two dance aesthetics are combined to create a new form. Technique classes will include center floor exercises, movement combinations across the floor, and movement phrases. Students will also attend dance performances in the community.Repertory students are required to take Dance 2241 concurrently. A continuation of modern dance principles introduced in Dance 1211 with the addition of African-derived dance movement. The two dance aesthetics are combined to create a new form. Through regular rehearsals students will be a part of an artistic creative process and perform in the Spring Dance concert at the end of the semester.Focuses on conquest, colonialism, and its legacies in sub-Saharan Africa; the violent process of colonial pacification, examined from European and African perspectives; the different ways of consolidating colonial rule and African resistance to colonial rule, from Maji Maji to Mau Mau; and African nationalism and independence, as experienced by Africas nationalist leaders, from Kwame Nkrumah to Jomo Kenyatta, and their critics. Concludes with the limits of independence, mass disenchantment, the rise of the predatory post-colonial state, genocide in the Great Lakes, and the wars of Central Africa.Introduces students to the literary tradition of the contemporary Francophone world. Focuses on major authors and literary movements in historical and cultural context. Conducted in French.Historical survey of nineteenth-century American fiction, including works by Washington Irving, Catherine Sedgwick, Herman Melville, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Frank Webb, Harriet Beecher Stowe, William Wells Brown, Mark Twain, Frank Norris, Henry James, John DeForest, Edith Wharton, William Dean Howells, and Charles Chesnutt. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Considers the intertwined fates of slavery and sentiment in the lead-up to, and the years following, the Civil War. At its center is Harriet Beecher Stowes 1852 Uncle Toms Cabin. Tracks the ramifying effects of this antebellum mega-bestseller, in such disparate realms as literary and print culture, political counter-publics, and law. Explores in particular how responses to the novel in Southern, British, and African-American literary discourses ring complex changes on the major tropes of Stowes novel, and on the received wisdom about Uncle Tom that persists into today. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Examines the history and contributions of African Americans to United States theater from the early blackface minstrel tradition, to the revolutionary theater of the Black Arts writers, to more recent postmodernist stage spectacles. Among other concerns, such works often dramatize the efforts of African Americans to negotiate ongoing tensions between individual needs and group demands that result from historically changing forms of racial marginalization. A particular goal is to highlight what Kimberly Benston has termed the expressive agency with which black writers and performers have imbued their theatrical presentations. Potential authors include Zora Neale Hurston, Langston Hughes, Lorraine Hansberry, Amiri Baraka, Ron Milner, Adrienne Kennedy, Ntozake Shange, George C. Wolfe, Anna Deavere Smith, Afro Pomo Homos, and August Wilson. -gk927c2ySeminar. Critically discusses some seminal works in African diaspora and African political thought in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Organized around global and national currents that will allow students to explore intersections in pan-African, African American, and African political thought in the context of Atlantic and global histories. Seminar topics divided into three major historic moments. The first explores major themes on Atlantic slavery and Western thought, notably slavery and racial representation, slavery and capitalism, and slavery and democracy. The second focuses on the struggle of African Americans, Africans, and West Indians for freedom in post-Abolition and colonial contexts. Topics discussed within twentieth-century national, regional, and global currents include reconstruction and industrialization, pan-Africanism, new negro, negritude, colonialism, nationalism. Finally, explores pan-African and African encounters in the context of dominant postcolonial themes, namely decolonization, Cold War, state formation, imperialism, African diaspora feminist thought, and globalism. Discusses these foundational texts and the political thoughts of major African, African American, and Caribbean intellectuals and activists in their appropriate historical context.Uses archaeology to explore the experience of Africans and their descendants in the Atlantic World from the fifteenth century onward. Examines archaeological sites in Africa, the New World, and the Atlantic islands that are implicated in the trans-Atlantic slave trade and in other forms of interaction between African and non-African communities. Particular topics to be explored will include comparisons between archaeological and historical documentation, archaeological evidence for domination and resistance, and the material traces of cultural contacts and hybridity.Explores a spectrum of films produced since 1950 that engage African American cultural experience. Topics may include black-white buddy movies, the L.A. Rebellion, blaxploitation, the hood genre, cult classics, comedy and cross-dressing, and romance dramas. Of special interest will be the documentary impulse in contemporary African American film; gender, sexuality, and cultural images; the politics of interpretationwriters, filmmakers, critics, and audiences; and the urban context and the economics of alienation. Extensive readings in film and cultural theory and criticism.A research course for majors and interested non-majors that culminates in a single 2530 page research paper. With the professors consent, students may choose any topic in Civil War or African American history, broadly defined. This is a special opportunity to delve into Bowdoins rich collections of primary historical source documents.History has retained the names of great male Caribbean heroes and freedom fighters during slavery such as the Haitians, Mackandal or Toussaint Louverture, the Jamaican, Cudjoe or the Cuban Coba. Enslaved Africans who rebelled against oppression and fled from the plantation system are called maroons and their act, marronage. Except for Queen Nanny of the Jamaican Blue Mountains, only male names have been consecrated as maroons. Yet, enslaved women did fight against slavery and practice marronage. Caribbean writers have made a point of bringing to memory forgotten acts of marronage by women during slavery or shortly thereafter. This course proposes to examine the fictional treatment French-speaking Caribbean authors grant to African or Afro-descent women who historically rebelled against slavery and colonization. The literary works will be studied against the backdrop of douboutism, a conceptual framework derived from the common perception about women in the French Caribbean as expressed in the Creole say fanm doubout which means strong woman. Authors studied may include Suzanne Dracius (Martinique), Fabienne Kanor (Martinique), Andr Schwart-Bart (Guadeloupe), Maryse Cond (Guadeloupe), Evelyn Trouillot (Haiti). Conducted in French.Students conduct intensive research on a major topic in Africana studies that they have explored during the course of their academic experience in the Africana Studies Program. Students required to apply rigorous humanities and social science theories and concepts to African American, African, or African diaspora themes in the formation of their final research projects. Students required to give regular presentations of their research projects to Africana studies faculty and students.The history of international aid to the third world through the twentieth century. Seminar considers the imperial mission and white mans burden, aid during modern colonialism, the post-colonial aid community, the Bretton Woods Institutions, the rise of small-scale NGO aid interventions, aid in modern warfare, and the varied contemporary impacts of aid. Readings focus on Africa, along with examples from Latin America and South Asia. Participants should have some background in the history of at least one of these regions. Each student will write an original research paper on the history of an aid project.Investigates, historicizes, and theorizes how African, European, and indigenous beliefs about the spirit world have combined in the development of African diasporic religion in the Americas. Focuses particularly on Candombl, Umbanda, and Spiritism in Brazil. Also considers Santera in Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and New York; Vodun in Haiti; Hoodoo in the Mississippi Delta; and Obeah in Jamaica and Guyana. Explores concepts of syncretism, hybridity, cultural encounter, identity, performance, and diaspora.Explores the visual construction of race in American art and culture from the colonial period to the late twentieth century. Focuses on two racial "categories"--blackness and whiteness--and how they have shaped American culture. Using college and local museum collections, examines paintings, sculptures, prints, photographs, film, and the spaces in which they have been displayed and viewed. Approach to this material is grounded in art history, but also draws from other disciplines. Artists under study include those who are well-known such as Homer and Walker as well as those who are unknown or have been forgotten.Traces the development of Native American stereotypes perpetuated by popular media both historically and presently. Considers effects of such stereotypes in contemporary media and popular culture. Analyzes films, literature, advertisements, cartoons, newspapers, magazines, and sports team mascots, among other forms of popular media and culture. Explores the diversity and variety of Native American peoples that are in opposition to media produced stereotypical images.Cultural anthropology explores the diversities and commonalities of cultures and societies in an increasingly interconnected world. Introduces students to the significant issues, concepts, theories, and methods in cultural anthropology. Topics may include cultural relativism and ethnocentrism, fieldwork and ethics, symbolism, language, religion and ritual, political and economic systems, family and kinship, gender, class, ethnicity and race, nationalism and transnationalism, and ethnographic representation and validity.An introduction to the practice of archaeology as the study of the human past. Introduces students to the methods and theories through which archaeologists use material traces to analyze the behaviors of people, from our earliest tool-making ancestors to the 20th century. Topics covered will include the history of archaeology as a professional discipline, the role of theory in archaeological interpretation, and the archaeological examination of ancient economic, social and ideological systems. Three well-known archaeological field projects will be used as source material for the course.Anthropological research methods and perspectives are examined through classic and recent ethnography, statistics and computer literacy, and the students own fieldwork experience. Topics include ethics, analytical and methodological techniques, the interpretation of data, and the use and misuse of anthropology.Over the last 20,000 years, the Earth''s environment has changed in both subtle and dramatic ways. Some changes and attributable to natural processes and variation, some have been triggered by human activities. Referring to anthropological and archaeological studies, and research on past and contemporary local, regional, and global environments, the course examines the complex and diverse relationship between cultures and the Earth''s dynamic environment. A previous science course is recommended.What place does language have in everyday life? How are identities produced and perceived in personal and social interactions? How is language used to reinforce, challenge, or reconfigure relationships of power? Approaches the study of language as a social and historical reality that emerges in the interactions of individuals. Using examples from a variety of social and cultural contexts, discusses the relationship between language, culture, and thought; structure and agency; language and social inequality; language acquisition and socialization; multilingualism and multiculturalism; verbal art and performance. Considers how aspects of an individuals identity such as gender, race, ethnicity, class, age, and sexual orientation articulate in social and linguistic interactions.Anthropologists have long been fascinated with defining who is related to whom. Students read works by leading anthropologists to gain an understanding of the various ways kinship has been defined in anthropology and in a diversity of cultures. Elucidates various kinship systems throughout the world and explores how anthropologists have worked with the concept of relatedness. Examines contemporary issues and discusses current kinship studies of relatedness and how those apply to new reproductive technologies such as surrogate mothers, in vitro fertilization, the buying and selling of eggs and sperm, and the legal implications of these new ways of having children.Using Puerto Rico as a case-study from which to study borderlands theory, focuses on Puerto Ricos unique political status in history, describing how its relationship to the U.S. as  foreign in a domestic sense has shaped Puerto Rican Identity and community formation. Topical focus placed on questions of language and representation, migration patterns, and relationships between mainland and island based populations, as well as the psychological effects of colonialism. Develops students understanding that borders are both literal and metaphorical, but have real material effects on the unequal treatment of certain groups, even those purported to be part of the same nation-state.What do monsters tell us about society? Liminal figures have the capacity to reveal underlying social fears and anxieties and to help us think critically about existing systems of oppression and inequality. Students will explore the deep history of the zombie in Haitian culture and the recent emergence of the figure of the zombie as a popular modern American monster. To contrast the meaning of the zombie in Haiti and the United States, students will explore two critical concepts from social theoryKarl Marxs concept of alienation and Sigmund Freuds concept of repression. Students will engage substantively with these theories as they explore the place of zombies in oral histories, folktales, travel writing, film, comics, and other imaginative narrative forms. Topics to be discussed include: life, death, the body, free will, resistance, exploitation, knowledge, desire, race, gender, and violence.What do monsters tell us about society? Liminal figures have the capacity to reveal underlying social fears and anxieties and to help us think critically about existing systems of oppression and inequality. Students will explore the deep history of the zombie in Haitian culture and the recent emergence of the figure of the zombie as a popular modern American monster. To contrast the meaning of the zombie in Haiti and the United States, students will explore two critical concepts from social theoryKarl Marxs concept of alienation and Sigmund Freuds concept of repression. Students will engage substantively with these theories as they explore the place of zombies in oral histories, folktales, travel writing, film, comics, and other imaginative narrative forms. Topics to be discussed include: life, death, the body, free will, resistance, exploitation, knowledge, desire, race, gender, and violence.Uses archaeology to explore the experience of Africans and their descendants in the Atlantic World from the fifteenth century onward. Examines archaeological sites in Africa, the New World, and the Atlantic islands that are implicated in the trans-Atlantic slave trade and in other forms of interaction between African and non-African communities. Particular topics to be explored will include comparisons between archaeological and historical documentation, archaeological evidence for domination and resistance, and the material traces of cultural contacts and hybridity.Close readings of recent ethnographies and other materials are used to examine current theoretical and methodological developments and concerns in anthropology.A continuation of Elementary Arabic I, focuses on further developing students skills in speaking, listening, comprehending, writing, and reading Modern Standard Arabic.A continuation of Intermediate Arabic I, provides students with a more in-depth understanding of Modern Standard Arabic. Aims to enhance proficiency in speaking, listening, reading, and writing through the study of more elaborate grammatical structures and sophisticated, authentic texts. Textbook material supplemented by readings from the Quran, the hadith, and early Arabic poetry.Destroyed by the eruption of Vesuvius in AD 79, the archaeological remains of Pompeii, Herculaneum, and the neighboring sites around the Bay of Naples are unparalleled in their range and completeness. The study of this material record reveals a great deal about the domestic, economic, religious, social, and political life in ancient Italy. Examines archaeological, literary, and documentary material ranging from architecture and sculpture to wall painting, graffiti, and the floral remains of ancient gardens, but focuses on interpreting the archaeological record for insight into the everyday life of the Romans. In addition, explores the methods and techniques employed by archaeologists since the sites were rediscovered in the sixteenth century. Archaeological materials are introduced through illustrated presentations, supplementary texts, and sessions in the Bowdoin College Museum of Art.For ancient cultures the art of portraiture had important religious, political, and social functions. Portraits, whether of gods, rulers, or common folk, were uniquely suited to communicate a variety of messages in a form easily recognizable to the intended audience. The success of the genre is clear from its widespread use and from the ways that it incorporated the accumulated traditions of ancient Mediterranean history. From profiles carved in relief and painted on vases to figures molded in terracotta and portraits sculpted in the round, explores a range of art representing Egyptian, Assyrian, Cypriot, Greek, and Roman cultures. Using artifacts housed in the collections of the Bowdoin College Museum of Art, examines the traditions, styles, and techniques that inform the portrayals of individuals in the ancient world, and what they teach about the societies that produced them.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.An introduction to the study of art history. Provides a chronological overview of art primarily from Western and East Asian traditions. Considers the historical context of art and its production, the role of the arts in society, problems of stylistic tradition and innovation, and points of contact and exchange between artistic traditions. Equivalent of Art History 101 as a major or minor requirement. Not open to students who have credit for Art History 101.Examines the various artistic and architectural traditions of the diverse medieval cultures of the area now known as Spain, from the fall of Roman Hispania to the conquest of Granada by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492. The Muslims of Al-Andalus, the Christians of the northern kingdoms, and the Sephardic Jews each made their cultural and artistic marks on this complex, interwoven society. The problematic term ''convivencia'' is often applied to this hybrid society whose mixed nature led to conflicts, exchanges, and adaptations that altered and enriched the visual culture of all three. We will explore these instances of cultural coexistence and rivalry through such key themes as the role of art in expressions of religious and political identity, the appropriation and reuse of art objects, architectural monuments and visual traditions, and how cross-cultural influences (including those from outside of Spain) were negotiated within this unique historical landscape.Venice is distinctive among Italian cities for its political structures, its geographical location, and its artistic production. This overview of Venetian art and architecture considers Venices relationships to Byzantium and the Turkish east; Venetian colorism in dialogue with Tuscan-Roman disegno; and the role of women as artists, as patrons, and as subjects of art. Includes art by the Bellini family, Giorgione, Titian, Veronese, Tintoretto, Tiepolo, Canaletto, and Rosalba Carriera, and the architecture of Palladio.Introduces students to Chinese art from the First Emperors terracotta warriors in the third century BCE to the waning of the countrys dynastic history in the nineteenth century CE. Following a chronological sequence, explores key mortuary spaces, religious objects, court art, and landscape painting with emphasis on themes of power and politics. Emphasis is placed on understanding changing art formats and functions in relation to socio-cultural contexts, such as shifts in belief systems, foreign imperial patronage, and the rise of literati expression. Readings include primary sources such as ancestral rites, Buddhist doctrines, imperial proclamations, and Chinese painting treatises.An examination of the central role that images of the female nude played in the development of modernist art between 1860 and the 1920s. Topics include the tradition of the female nude in art; the gendered dynamics of modernism; and the social, cultural, and artistic meaning of nudity. Artists considered include Manet, Degas, Czanne, Picasso, and Valadon.Explores the visual construction of race in American art and culture from the colonial period to the late twentieth century. Focuses on two racial "categories"--blackness and whiteness--and how they have shaped American culture. Using college and local museum collections, examines paintings, sculptures, prints, photographs, film, and the spaces in which they have been displayed and viewed. Approach to this material is grounded in art history, but also draws from other disciplines. Artists under study include those who are well-known such as Homer and Walker as well as those who are unknown or have been forgotten.Seminar. Examines Chinese science, technology, and medicine in the cultural, intellectual, and social circumstances. The first part surveys a selection of main fields of study in traditional Chinese science and technology, nodal points of invention and discovery, and important conceptual themes. The second part tackles the clash between traditional Chinese natural studies and modern science from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries. Prominent themes include astronomy and court politics, printing technology and books, and the dissemination of Western natural science, among others. Reading materials reflect the interdisciplinary approach of this course and include secondary literature on cultural, intellectual history, ethnography, and the sociology of scientific knowledge.Introduction to ancient Chinese history (2000 BCE to 800 CE). Explores the origins and foundations of Chinese civilization. Prominent themes include the inception of the imperial system, the intellectual fluorescence in classical China, the introduction and assimilation of Buddhism, the development of Chinese cosmology, and the interactions between early China and neighboring regions. Class discussion of historical writings complemented with literary works and selected pieces of the visual arts. Note: This course fulfills the pre-modern requirement for history majors.Introduces students to Chinese art from the First Emperors terracotta warriors in the third century BCE to the waning of the countrys dynastic history in the nineteenth century CE. Following a chronological sequence, explores key mortuary spaces, religious objects, court art, and landscape painting with emphasis on themes of power and politics. Emphasis is placed on understanding changing art formats and functions in relation to socio-cultural contexts, such as shifts in belief systems, foreign imperial patronage, and the rise of literati expression. Readings include primary sources such as ancestral rites, Buddhist doctrines, imperial proclamations, and Chinese painting treatises.Examines Chinese politics in the context of a prolonged revolution. After a survey of the political system as established in the 1950s and patterns of politics emerging from it, the analytic focus turns to political change in the reform era (since 1979) and the forces driving it. Topics include the political impact of decentralization and marketization, the reintegration into the capitalist world economy, and the development of the legal system. The adaptation by the Communist Party to these changes and the prospects of democratization are also examined.Explores cultural trends in contemporary China with post-socialist condition as the contextual setting and cultural studies the theoretical framework. Discussion topics include rural-urban transformations, experimental art, alternative literature, documentary cinema, fashion codes, and gender issues. Examines how cultural trends reflect and react to Chinas social-economic transitions, and how the state apparatus and the people participate in cultural production and consumption.Introduces students to films produced in the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Places national cinema in a transnational framework and explores how cinema as a sign system constructs sociocultural and aesthetic meanings. Students will benefit most by bringing both an open mind toward non-Western cultural texts, and a critical eye for visual art.Introduces students to films produced in the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Places national cinema in a transnational framework and explores how cinema as a sign system constructs sociocultural and aesthetic meanings. Students will benefit most by bringing both an open mind toward non-Western cultural texts, and a critical eye for visual art.From possessing spirits and serpentine creatures to hungry ghosts and spectral visions, Japanese literary history is alive with supernatural beings. The focus of study ranges from the earliest times to modernity, examining these motifs in both historical and theoretical contexts. Readings pose the following broad questions: How do representations of the supernatural function in both creation myths of the ancient past and the rational narratives of the modern nation? What is the relationship between liminal beings and a societys notion of purity? How may we understand the uncanny return of dead spirits in medieval Japanese drama? How does the construction of demonic female sexuality vary between medieval and modern Japan? Draws on various genres of representation, from legends and novels to drama, paintings, and cinema. Students develop an appreciation of the hold that creatures from the other side maintain over our cultural and social imagination.A reading and discussion of translated classical Hindu literature, including the Rg Veda, Upanishads, Yoga Sutra, the epics Ramayana, Mahabharata (including the Bhagavad Gita), Devi Mahatmya and the Cilapatikaram, etc. Focuses on development of various types of religious worldviews and religious experiences as reflected in classical Sanskrit and vernacular literature of India.An examination of the ways in which changes in political economies and societies of Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Laos and Cambodia have fostered changes in the predominantly Theravada Buddhist religious cultures of modern Southeast Asia. Focuses include how civil wars in Sri Lanka and Burma, revolutions in Laos and Cambodia, and the ideology of kingship in Thailand have elicited changes in the public practice of religion. Previous credit in Religion 2222 222 (same as Asian Studies 2554 242) is highly recommended.Seminar: Focuses on Islam in South Asiawhich is home to the largest number of Muslims anywhere in the world, and whose large Muslim population has always co-habited with a much larger non-Muslim population. Questions and themes include: the manner and extent of the expansion of Islam over the subcontinent (religion of conquest? mass conversions?); how Islamic was Muslim rule on the sub-continent; Islamic aesthetics and contributions to material culture; the multiple engagements and reactions of Muslims to British colonial rule; the politicization of religious identity under colonialism; the partition of British India into the nation states of India and Pakistan on grounds of religion; and the contemporary concerns and challenges of South Asias Muslims.Politics, almost by definition, is oppositional. It promotes an us vs. them mindset. However, Gandhi introduced a form of politics that was non-adversarial and based in dialogue. His non-violent form of politics was able to bring the masses into the political arena for the first time in South Asia, and to create one of the largest anti-colonial movements in the world. Analyzes Gandhian politics through questions such as: How did Gandhis deeply held personal views on non-violence impact his politics? What were the Gandhian techniques of mass mobilization? Can Gandhis own initiativeswhat he himself said and didadequately explain his vast popularity amongst the masses? What were the pitfalls of Gandhian politics? What groups felt alienated from them? How did people such as Martin Luther King Jr. adapt Gandhian ideas outside South Asia? Do Gandhian ideas have a place in our contemporary world?-9s370d2a064b1d83hj0Surveys developments in Asian American literature since 2000, and asks how post-millennial fictions revise and extend the core concerns of earlier writing. If Asian American writers have long been preoccupied with questions of ethnic identity and national belonging, recent works tackle these themes within new contexts of transnationalism, the post-9/11 security state, and the global financial crisis. Considers the diverse functions of the contemporary Asian American novelas autobiography and narrative of racial passing, as social satire and tragicomedy, and as cultural memory and multiracial national history.Seminar. Can literature be produced within a totalitarian regime where public expression is tightly controlled by the state? Or does political repression ironically foster creative means of literary circumvention? These are some central questions raised by the controversial awarding of the 2012 Nobel Prize in Literature to Mo Yan. Focusing on contemporary China as a case study, explores the relation between aesthetics and politics via a range of writers, from establishment novelists to dissidents in exile to Internet activists. Authors may include Mo Yan, Su Tong, Yu Hua, Liu Xiaobo, Liao Yiwu, Yan Lianke, Ai Weiwei, and Han Han. Theoretical reference points may include Lukacs, Arendt, Mao, Boym, Barme, and Evasdottir.Analyzes the political, social, and cultural underpinnings of modern politics, and asks how democracy works in Japan compared with other countries. Explores how Japan has achieved stunning material prosperity while maintaining among the best healthcare and education systems in the world, high levels of income equality, and low levels of crime. Students are also instructed in conducting independent research on topics of their own choosing.Interdependence between organisms is a ubiquitous feature in biology with important consequences for how we think about the world. Plant biology is used as a starting point to explore a variety of inter-species, particularly symbiotic, interactions observed in nature.Theories of the origin, maintenance and persistence of symbioses are discussed. Biological examples include ancient intracellular symbioses underlying photosynthesis and respiration, plus interactions between plants, pathogens, parasites, and symbionts, including nitrogen fixersThe second in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Emphasizes fundamental biological principles extending from the physiological to the ecosystem level of living organisms. Topics include physiology, ecology, and evolutionary biology, with a focus on developing quantitative skills as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups.The second in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Emphasizes fundamental biological principles extending from the physiological to the ecosystem level of living organisms. Topics include physiology, ecology, and evolutionary biology, with a focus on developing quantitative skills as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups.The second in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Emphasizes fundamental biological principles extending from the physiological to the ecosystem level of living organisms. Topics include physiology, ecology, and evolutionary biology, with a focus on developing quantitative skills as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups.The second in a two-semester introductory biology sequence. Emphasizes fundamental biological principles extending from the physiological to the ecosystem level of living organisms. Topics include physiology, ecology, and evolutionary biology, with a focus on developing quantitative skills as well as critical thinking and problem solving skills. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Lectures examine fundamental biological principles, from the sub-cellular to the ecosystem level with an emphasis on critical thinking and the scientific method. Laboratory sessions will help develop a deeper understanding of the techniques and methods used in the biological science by requiring students to design and conduct their own experiments. Lecture and weekly laboratory/discussion groups. To ensure proper placement, students must take the biology placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Biology 1109 109.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Integrated coverage of organismic and molecular levels of genetic systems. Topics include modes of inheritance, the structure and function of chromosomes, the mechanisms and control of gene expression, recombination, mutagenesis, techniques of molecular biology, and human genetic variation. Laboratory sessions are scheduled.Integrated coverage of organismic and molecular levels of genetic systems. Topics include modes of inheritance, the structure and function of chromosomes, the mechanisms and control of gene expression, recombination, mutagenesis, techniques of molecular biology, and human genetic variation. Laboratory sessions are scheduled.Integrated coverage of organismic and molecular levels of genetic systems. Topics include modes of inheritance, the structure and function of chromosomes, the mechanisms and control of gene expression, recombination, mutagenesis, techniques of molecular biology, and human genetic variation. Laboratory sessions are scheduled.An examination of the structure and function of microorganisms, from viruses to bacteria to fungi, with an emphasis on molecular descriptions. Subjects covered include microbial structure, metabolism, and genetics. Control of microorganisms and environmental interactions are also discussed. Laboratory sessions every week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended.An examination of the structure and function of microorganisms, from viruses to bacteria to fungi, with an emphasis on molecular descriptions. Subjects covered include microbial structure, metabolism, and genetics. Control of microorganisms and environmental interactions are also discussed. Laboratory sessions every week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended.An examination of the structure and function of microorganisms, from viruses to bacteria to fungi, with an emphasis on molecular descriptions. Subjects covered include microbial structure, metabolism, and genetics. Control of microorganisms and environmental interactions are also discussed. Laboratory sessions every week. Chemistry 2250 225 is recommended.An examination of animal function, from the cellular to the organismal level. The underlying concepts are emphasized, as are the experimental data that support our current understanding of animal function. Topics include the nervous system, hormones, respiration, circulation, osmoregulation, digestion, and thermoregulation. Labs are short, student-designed projects involving a variety of instrumentation. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.An examination of animal function, from the cellular to the organismal level. The underlying concepts are emphasized, as are the experimental data that support our current understanding of animal function. Topics include the nervous system, hormones, respiration, circulation, osmoregulation, digestion, and thermoregulation. Labs are short, student-designed projects involving a variety of instrumentation. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.An examination of animal function, from the cellular to the organismal level. The underlying concepts are emphasized, as are the experimental data that support our current understanding of animal function. Topics include the nervous system, hormones, respiration, circulation, osmoregulation, digestion, and thermoregulation. Labs are short, student-designed projects involving a variety of instrumentation. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Examines one of the most breathtaking ideas in the history of sciencethat all life on this planet descended from a common ancestor. An understanding of evolution illuminates every subject in biology, from molecular biology to ecology. Provides a broad overview of evolutionary ideas, including the modern theory of evolution by natural selection, evolution of sexual reproduction, patterns of speciation and macro-evolutionary change, evolution of sexual dimorphisms, selfish genetic elements, and kin selection. Laboratory sessions are devoted to semester-long, independent research projects.Examines one of the most breathtaking ideas in the history of sciencethat all life on this planet descended from a common ancestor. An understanding of evolution illuminates every subject in biology, from molecular biology to ecology. Provides a broad overview of evolutionary ideas, including the modern theory of evolution by natural selection, evolution of sexual reproduction, patterns of speciation and macro-evolutionary change, evolution of sexual dimorphisms, selfish genetic elements, and kin selection. Laboratory sessions are devoted to semester-long, independent research projects.Examines one of the most breathtaking ideas in the history of sciencethat all life on this planet descended from a common ancestor. An understanding of evolution illuminates every subject in biology, from molecular biology to ecology. Provides a broad overview of evolutionary ideas, including the modern theory of evolution by natural selection, evolution of sexual reproduction, patterns of speciation and macro-evolutionary change, evolution of sexual dimorphisms, selfish genetic elements, and kin selection. Laboratory sessions are devoted to semester-long, independent research projects.Explores the biochemical mechanisms that underlie the basis of life. Starts with the chemistry of proteins, DNA, lipids, and carbohydrates to build the main elements of a cell. Moves on to the process of gene organization and expression, emphasizing the biochemical mechanisms that regulate these events. Explores next the organization of the cell, with emphasis on genetic and biochemical regulation. Finishes with specific examples of multicellular interactions, including development, cancer, and perception of the environment.Develops the theory and practical skills to apply genetic data to ecological questions. Topics will include population connectivity and dispersal, mating systems, detecting natural selection in the wild, and the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Lectures and discussions will develop theoretical understanding through worked examples. The laboratory provides hands on experience in generating genetic data from marine populations, including modules on sampling design, DNA/RNA extraction, Sanger and Next Generation Sequencing technology, and data analysis through modeling.Develops the theory and practical skills to apply genetic data to ecological questions. Topics will include population connectivity and dispersal, mating systems, detecting natural selection in the wild, and the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Lectures and discussions will develop theoretical understanding through worked examples. The laboratory provides hands on experience in generating genetic data from marine populations, including modules on sampling design, DNA/RNA extraction, Sanger and Next Generation Sequencing technology, and data analysis through modeling.Examines the quantitative and qualitative characterization of organismal morphology, and explores the relationship of morphology to measurable components of an organisms mechanical, hydrodynamic, and ecological environment. Lectures, labs, field trips, and individual research projects emphasize (1) analysis of morphology, including analyses of the shape of individual organisms as well as of the mechanical and molecular organization of their tissues; (2) characterization of water flow associated with organisms; and (3) analyses of the ecological and mechanical consequences to organisms of their interaction with their environment. Introductory physics and calculus are strongly recommended.Examination of the molecular control of neuronal structure and function. Topics include the molecular basis of neuronal excitability, the factors involved in chemical and contact-mediated neuronal communication, and the complex molecular control of developing and regenerating nervous systems. Weekly laboratories complement lectures by covering a range of molecular and cellular techniques used in neurobiology and culminate in brief independent projects.Examination of the molecular control of neuronal structure and function. Topics include the molecular basis of neuronal excitability, the factors involved in chemical and contact-mediated neuronal communication, and the complex molecular control of developing and regenerating nervous systems. Weekly laboratories complement lectures by covering a range of molecular and cellular techniques used in neurobiology and culminate in brief independent projects.Examination of the molecular control of neuronal structure and function. Topics include the molecular basis of neuronal excitability, the factors involved in chemical and contact-mediated neuronal communication, and the complex molecular control of developing and regenerating nervous systems. Weekly laboratories complement lectures by covering a range of molecular and cellular techniques used in neurobiology and culminate in brief independent projects.Advanced seminar investigating the synergistic but complex interface between the fields of developmental and evolutionary biology. Topics include the evolution of novel structures, developmental constraints to evolution, evolution of developmental gene regulation, and the generation of variation. Readings and discussions from the primary scientific literature.Highlights biological principles from evolution and ecology applicable to development and sustainability of agriculture. Addresses productivity limits in agro-ecosystems and challenges facing modern agriculture. Discusses; trophic structure of agricultural systems, plant performance in agricultural environments, features of domesticated species, coevolution of weeds and crops, pesticide development and pesticide resistance, impacts of land use change, transgenics, and organic farming.Examines the dynamics of evolutionary change at the molecular level. Topics include neutral theory of molecular evolution, rates and patterns of change in nucleotide sequences and proteins, molecular phylogenetics, and genome evolution. Students read and discuss papers from the scientific literature, and complete independent projects in the laboratory.An exploration of the multiple ways cells have evolved to transmit signals from their external environment to cause alterations in cell architecture, physiology, and gene expression. Examples are drawn from both single-cell and multi-cellular organisms, including bacteria, fungi, algae, land plants, insects, worms, and mammals. Emphasis is on the primary literature, with directed discussion and some background introductory remarks for each class.Natural and synthetic chemicals make up virtually everything we purchase and consume from breakfast cereals to soaps, shampoo bottles, and over-the-counter medications. Examines the chemical components of food, drugs, soaps, plastics, and other consumer goods we encounter daily. Explores scientific resources that can be used to obtain information on product components, safety, and regulations. Also considers topics related to some of the current safety concerns raised by chemicals found in common household items through case studies and research projects. Assumes no background in science. Not open to students who have credit for a chemistry course numbered 1100 (100) or higher.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.The second course in a two-semester introductory college chemistry sequence. Introduction to chemical bonding and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1109 (109) may not take Chemistry 1102 (102) for credit.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).A one-semester introductory chemistry course. Introduction to models of atomic structure, chemical bonding, and intermolecular forces; characterization of chemical systems at equilibrium and spontaneous processes; the rates of chemical reactions; and special topics. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week. Students who have taken Chemistry 1102 (102) may not take Chemistry 1109 (109) for credit. To ensure proper placement, students must take the chemistry placement examination and must be recommended for placement in Chemistry 1109 (109).Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Continuation of the study of the compounds of carbon. Highlights the reactions of aromatic, carbonyl-containing, and amine functional groups. Mechanistic reasoning provides a basis for understanding these reactions. Skills for designing logical synthetic approaches to complex organic molecules are developed. Chemistry 2250 (225) and 2260 (226) cover the material of the usual course in organic chemistry and form a foundation for further work in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures, review sessions, and four hours of laboratory work per week.Focuses on the chemistry of living organisms. Topics include structure, conformation, and properties of the major classes of biomolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids); enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and regulation; metabolic transformations; energetics and metabolic control. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. This course satisfies a requirement for the biochemistry major.Focuses on the chemistry of living organisms. Topics include structure, conformation, and properties of the major classes of biomolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids); enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and regulation; metabolic transformations; energetics and metabolic control. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. This course satisfies a requirement for the biochemistry major.Focuses on the chemistry of living organisms. Topics include structure, conformation, and properties of the major classes of biomolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids); enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and regulation; metabolic transformations; energetics and metabolic control. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. This course satisfies a requirement for the biochemistry major.Focuses on the chemistry of living organisms. Topics include structure, conformation, and properties of the major classes of biomolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids); enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and regulation; metabolic transformations; energetics and metabolic control. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. This course satisfies a requirement for the biochemistry major.An introduction to the chemistry of the elements with a focus on chemical bonding, periodic properties, and coordination compounds. Topics in solid state, bioinorganic, and environmental inorganic chemistry also are included. Provides a foundation for further work in chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.An introduction to the chemistry of the elements with a focus on chemical bonding, periodic properties, and coordination compounds. Topics in solid state, bioinorganic, and environmental inorganic chemistry also are included. Provides a foundation for further work in chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.An introduction to the chemistry of the elements with a focus on chemical bonding, periodic properties, and coordination compounds. Topics in solid state, bioinorganic, and environmental inorganic chemistry also are included. Provides a foundation for further work in chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.An introduction to the chemistry of the elements with a focus on chemical bonding, periodic properties, and coordination compounds. Topics in solid state, bioinorganic, and environmental inorganic chemistry also are included. Provides a foundation for further work in chemistry and biochemistry. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week.Development and principles of quantum chemistry with applications to atomic structure, chemical bonding, chemical reactivity, and molecular spectroscopy. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics1800 (181) is recommended.Development and principles of quantum chemistry with applications to atomic structure, chemical bonding, chemical reactivity, and molecular spectroscopy. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics1800 (181) is recommended.Development and principles of quantum chemistry with applications to atomic structure, chemical bonding, chemical reactivity, and molecular spectroscopy. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics1800 (181) is recommended.Development and principles of quantum chemistry with applications to atomic structure, chemical bonding, chemical reactivity, and molecular spectroscopy. Lectures and four hours of laboratory work per week. Mathematics1800 (181) is recommended.Theoretical and practical aspects of instrumental techniques, including nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry are covered, in conjunction with advanced chromatographic methods. Applications of instrumental techniques to the analysis of biological and environmental samples are covered. Lectures and two hours of laboratory work per week.The power of organic synthesis has had a tremendous impact on our understanding of biological systems. Examines case studies in which synthetically derived small molecules have been used as tools to tease out answers to questions of biological significance. Topics include synthetic strategies that have been used to make derivatives of the major classes of biomolecules (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids) and the experimental breakthroughs these molecules have enabled (e.g., polymerase-chain reaction, DNA sequencing, microarray technology). Emphasis on current literature, experimental design, and critical review of manuscripts.The power of organic synthesis has had a tremendous impact on our understanding of biological systems. Examines case studies in which synthetically derived small molecules have been used as tools to tease out answers to questions of biological significance. Topics include synthetic strategies that have been used to make derivatives of the major classes of biomolecules (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids) and the experimental breakthroughs these molecules have enabled (e.g., polymerase-chain reaction, DNA sequencing, microarray technology). Emphasis on current literature, experimental design, and critical review of manuscripts.A continuation of Chinese 1101 (101). Five hours of class per week. Covers most of the essential grammatical structures and vocabulary for basic survival needs and simple daily routine conversations. Introduction to the next 350 characters (simplified version), use of Chinese-English dictionary. Followed by Chinese 2203 (203).A continuation of Chinese 1103 (103). Five hours of class per week. An all-around upgrade of communicative skills with an emphasis on accuracy and fluency. Covers more than 1,000 Chinese characters together with Chinese 1103 (103). Propels those with sufficient competence directly to Advanced-Intermediate Chinese [2205 (205) and 2206 (206)] after a year of intensive training while prepares others to move up to Intermediate (second-year) Chinese language course. Followed by Chinese 2203 (203) or 2205 (205) with instructors approval.A continuation of Chinese 2203 (203). Five hours of class per week. Further develops students communicative competence and strives to achieve a balance between the receptive and productive skills. Students learn another 400 characters; read longer, more complex texts; and write short compositions with increasing discourse cohesion. Followed by Chinese 2205 (205).A continuation of Chinese 2205 (205). Three hours of class per week. Further enhances students ability in the three modes of communication: interpretive, interpersonal, and presentative. Focuses on the improvement of reading comprehension and speed, and essay writing skills of expositive and argumentative essays. Deals particularly with edited and/or authentic materials from Chinese mass media such as newspapers and the Internet. Followed by Chinese 3307 (307).Continuation of Chinese 3307 (307).Focuses on the mythology of the Greeks and the use of myth in classical literature. Other topics considered are recurrent patterns and motifs in Greek myths; a cross-cultural study of ancient creation myths; the relation of mythology to religion; womens roles in myth; and the application of modern anthropological, sociological, and psychological theories to classical myth. Concludes with an examination of Ovids use of classical mythology in the Metamorphoses.Transformation is both a translation of the title of Ovids greatest work, the "Metamorphoses," the theme of which is mythical transformation, and a term that can be aptly applied as well to the life and work of Ovid, whose wildly successful social and literary career was radically transformed in 8 A.D. by Augustuss decree of exile, from which Ovid was never to return. The work transformation also captures the essence of Ovids literary afterlife, during which his work has taken on new incarnations in the creative responses of novelists, poets, dramatists, artists, and composers. Begins with an overview of Ovids poetry; culminates in a careful reading and discussion of the formal elements and central themes of the "Metamorphoses." Also examines Ovids afterlife, with special attention paid to his intertextual presence in the works of Shakespeare, Franz Kafka, Joseph Brodsky, Ted Hughes, Cristoph Ransmayr, Antonio Tabucchi, David Malouf, and Mary Zimmerman. All readings in English.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.What is computer science, what are its applications in other disciplines, and what is its impact in society? A step-by-step introduction to the art of problem solving using the computer and the Java language. Provides a broad introduction to computer science and programming through real-life applications. Weekly labs provide experiments with the concepts presented in class. Assumes no prior knowledge of computers or programming.Solving complex algorithmic problems requires the use of appropriate data structures such as stacks, priority queues, search trees, dictionaries, hash tables, and graphs. It also requires the ability to measure the efficiency of operations such as sorting and searching in order to make effective choices among alternative solutions. Offers a study of data structures, their efficiency, and their use in solving computational problems. Laboratory exercises provide an opportunity to design and implement these structures. Students interested in taking Computer Science 2101 210 are required to pass the computer science placement examination before class starts.Solving complex algorithmic problems requires the use of appropriate data structures such as stacks, priority queues, search trees, dictionaries, hash tables, and graphs. It also requires the ability to measure the efficiency of operations such as sorting and searching in order to make effective choices among alternative solutions. Offers a study of data structures, their efficiency, and their use in solving computational problems. Laboratory exercises provide an opportunity to design and implement these structures. Students interested in taking Computer Science 2101 210 are required to pass the computer science placement examination before class starts.An introductory course on the design and analysis of algorithms. Introduces a number of basic algorithms for a variety of problems such as searching, sorting, selection, and graph problems (e.g., spanning trees and shortest paths). Discusses analysis techniques, such as recurrences and amortization, as well as algorithm design paradigms such as divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and greedy algorithms.Nearly every computer that has been built in the last 60 years is a variation on one basic plan for organizing computation, known as the stored program machine. Students will gain an in-depth understanding of stored program machines through a series of programming assignments, primarily in assembly language on two popular computers, the 1960s era PDP-8 and the contemporary ARM. We will study the architecture of processors and memory, how input/output devices are controlled to match the high speed of processors with the low speed of electro-mechanical devices, how numbers are represented and arithmetic is carried out, how one physical processor can pretend to be many virtual processors, and techniques for squeezing maximum performance from the physical devices that are used to construct the machines.Computational geometry studies algorithms for collections of geometric objects such as points, lines, polygons, and planes. Geometric algorithms arise in areas such as computer graphics, robotics, or image processing. The class will cover the basic geometric problems and techniques: polygon triangulations, convex hulls, Delaunay triangulations and Voronoi diagrams, visibility, geometric searching and motion planning.Examines the social and economic aspects of today''s connected world from a multitude of perspectives; namely, network science, sociology, economics, and computer science. The fundamental questions to be addressed are: What is a network? What does a real-world network look like? What are its effects on various social and behavioral phenomena, such as smoking, obesity, or even videos going viral? This course will then study the network structure of the Internet, how companies like Google search it, and how they make money doing so. Further economic implications of networks, including networked economies and markets, will also be addressed.Optimization problems and the need to cope with uncertainty arise frequently in the real world. A numeric framework, rather than the symbolic one of traditional artificial intelligence, is useful for expressing such problems. In addition to providing a way of dealing with uncertainty, this approach sometimes permits performance guarantees for algorithms. Topics include constraint satisfaction, systematic and non-systematic search techniques, probabilistic inference and planning, and population-based optimization techniques (e.g., genetic algorithms and ant colony optimization).Explores movement invention, organization, and meaning. Problem-solving exercises, improvisations, and studies focus mainly on solo, duet, and trio forms. A video component introduces studentsregardless of previous experience in danceto a wide range of compositional methods and purposes. Includes reading, writing, discussion, attendance at live performances, andwhen possiblework with visiting professional artists.Explores movement invention, organization, and meaning. Problem-solving exercises, improvisations, and studies focus mainly on solo, duet, and trio forms. A video component introduces studentsregardless of previous experience in danceto a wide range of compositional methods and purposes. Includes reading, writing, discussion, attendance at live performances, andwhen possiblework with visiting professional artists.Combines dance history, embodied research, and performance. Students engage in readings, class discussions, and movement studies that allow them to learn movement techniques from past eras. Students explore connections between cultural values and norms and movement aesthetics, and discover how African American vernacular dance and jazz music influenced jazz forms and American dance throughout the twentieth century (ragtime, swing, hot jazz, and hip-hop). Culminates with a performance in the December Dance Concert. Students meet once a week in a seminar setting to investigate one dance era, such as swing. The next two class meetings take place in a dance studio in order to embody the dance form discussed that week, and include rehearsals.Classes in modern dance technique include basic exercises to develop dance skills such as balance and musicality. More challenging movement combinations and longer dance sequences build on these exercises. While focusing on the craft of dancing, students develop an appreciation of their own styles and an understanding of the role of craft in the creative process. During the semester, a historical overview of twentieth-century American dance on video is presented. Attendance at all classes is required. May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Repertory students are required to take Dance 1211 111 concurrently. Repertory classes provide the chance to learn faculty-choreographed works or reconstructions of historical dances. Class meetings are conducted as rehearsals for performances at the end of the semester: the December Studio Show, the annual Spring Performance in Pickard Theater, or Museum Pieces at the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in May. Additional rehearsals are scheduled before performances. Attendance at all classes and rehearsals is required. May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.A continuation of modern dance principles introduced in Dance 1211 with the addition of African-derived dance movement. The two dance aesthetics are combined to create a new form. Technique classes will include center floor exercises, movement combinations across the floor, and movement phrases. Students will also attend dance performances in the community.Repertory students are required to take Dance 2241 concurrently. A continuation of modern dance principles introduced in Dance 1211 with the addition of African-derived dance movement. The two dance aesthetics are combined to create a new form. Through regular rehearsals students will be a part of an artistic creative process and perform in the Spring Dance concert at the end of the semester.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.A continuation of the processes introduced in Dance 2211 (211). May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.Intermediate/advanced repertory students are required to take Dance 3211 (311) concurrently. A continuation of the principles and practices introduced in Dance 2212 (212). May be repeated for credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. One-half credit.An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.Explores the historical, current, and future demands of society on the natural resources of the earth and the ocean. Discusses the formation and extraction of salt, gold, diamonds, rare earth elements, coal, oil, natural gas, and renewable energies (e.g., tidal, geothermal, solar, wind). Examines how policies for these resources are written and revised to reflect changing societal values. Students complete a research project that explores the intersection of natural resources and society.Although only ~40 years old, the theory of plate tectonics forever changed the way we view our Earth, from static to dynamic. Plate tectonics provides a global framework to understand such varied phenomena as earthquakes, volcanoes, ocean basins and mountain systems both on continents (e.g. the Himalaya, the Andes) and beneath the seas (e.g. the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, the East Pacific Rise). In-depth analysis of plate boundaries, the driving forces of plate tectonics, global plate reconstructions and the predictiveAlthough only ~40 years old, the theory of plate tectonics forever changed the way we view our Earth, from static to dynamic. Plate tectonics provides a global framework to understand such varied phenomena as earthquakes, volcanoes, ocean basins and mountain systems both on continents (e.g. the Himalaya, the Andes) and beneath the seas (e.g. the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, the East Pacific Rise). In-depth analysis of plate boundaries, the driving forces of plate tectonics, global plate reconstructions and the predictiveFocuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.During recent ice ages, glaciers covered a third of the worlds land area and had profound impacts on earths landscapes and climates. Uses lectures, labs, field trips, and reading of the primary literature to examine the controls of current and former glacier distribution and movement, landforms and landscapes of glacial and meltwater systems, and the interaction of glaciers and the earths climate system.During recent ice ages, glaciers covered a third of the worlds land area and had profound impacts on earths landscapes and climates. Uses lectures, labs, field trips, and reading of the primary literature to examine the controls of current and former glacier distribution and movement, landforms and landscapes of glacial and meltwater systems, and the interaction of glaciers and the earths climate system.During recent ice ages, glaciers covered a third of the worlds land area and had profound impacts on earths landscapes and climates. Uses lectures, labs, field trips, and reading of the primary literature to examine the controls of current and former glacier distribution and movement, landforms and landscapes of glacial and meltwater systems, and the interaction of glaciers and the earths climate system.Structure of ocean basins, continental margins and marine sediments. The influence of plate tectonics on major events in oceanographic and climatic evolution. Sediment classification and distribution in the modern and ancient ocean. The geological and geophysical bases of the plate-tectonic model.Recent trends of carbon emissions and subsequent acidification of the surface ocean raises concerns over the potential impacts on marine ecosystems. Similar events from the geologic record may provide insight on current and future ocean conditions. Earth history (past ~300 million years) of ocean acidification and rapid carbon perturbations. Evidence and indications of past intervals of ocean acidification and the associated biotic responses. Laboratory component focuses on the fundamentals of carbonate chemistry and evidence from paleoceanographic sediment archives.Recent trends of carbon emissions and subsequent acidification of the surface ocean raises concerns over the potential impacts on marine ecosystems. Similar events from the geologic record may provide insight on current and future ocean conditions. Earth history (past ~300 million years) of ocean acidification and rapid carbon perturbations. Evidence and indications of past intervals of ocean acidification and the associated biotic responses. Laboratory component focuses on the fundamentals of carbonate chemistry and evidence from paleoceanographic sediment archives.The modern world is experiencing rapid climate warming and some parts extreme drought, which will have dramatic impacts on ecosystems and human societies. How do contemporary warming and aridity compare to past changes in climate over the last billion years? Are modern changes human-caused or part of the natural variability in the climate system? What effects did past changes have on global ecosystems and human societies? Students use environmental records from rocks, soils, ocean cores, ice cores, lake cores, fossil plants, and tree rings to assemble proxies of past changes in climate, atmospheric CO2, and disturbance to examine several issues: long-term carbon cycling and climate, major extinction events, the rise of C4 photosynthesis and the evolution of grazing mammals, orbital forcing and glacial cycles, glacial refugia and post-glacial species migrations, climate change and the rise and collapse of human civilizations, climate/overkill hypothesis of Pleistocene megafauna, climate variability, drought cycles, climate change impacts on disturbances (fire and hurricanes), and determining natural variability vs. human-caused climate changeMinerals are the Earths building blocks and an important human resource. The study of minerals provides information on processes that occur within the Earths core, mantle, crust, and at its surface. At the surface, minerals interact with the hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere, and are essential to understanding environmental issues. Minerals and mineral processes examined using hand-specimens, crystal structures, chemistry, and microscopy. Class projects emphasize mineral-based research.Minerals are the Earths building blocks and an important human resource. The study of minerals provides information on processes that occur within the Earths core, mantle, crust, and at its surface. At the surface, minerals interact with the hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere, and are essential to understanding environmental issues. Minerals and mineral processes examined using hand-specimens, crystal structures, chemistry, and microscopy. Class projects emphasize mineral-based research.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on the allocation of resources through markets. The theory of demand, supply, cost, and market structure is developed and then applied to problems in antitrust policy, environmental quality, energy, education, health, the role of the corporation in society, income distribution, and poverty. Students desiring a comprehensive introduction to economic reasoning should take both Economics 1101 101 and 1102 102.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.An introduction to economic analysis and institutions, with special emphasis on determinants of the level of national income, prices, and employment. Current problems of inflation and unemployment are explored with the aid of such analysis, and alternative views of the effectiveness of fiscal, monetary, and other governmental policies are analyzed. Attention is given to the sources and consequences of economic growth and to the nature and significance of international linkages through goods and capital markets.A study of the economic issues surrounding the existence and use of renewable natural resources (e.g., forestry/land use, fisheries, water, ecosystems, and the effectiveness of antibiotics) and exhaustible resources (such as minerals, fossil fuels, and old growth forest). A basic framework is first developed for determining economically efficient use of resources over time, then extended to consider objectives other than efficiency, as well as the distinguishing biological, ecological, physical, political, and social attributes of each resource. Uncertainty, common property, and various regulatory instruments are discussed, as well as alternatives to government intervention and/or privatization.Many standard economic models assume perfect and complete information. The economics of information explores how economic phenomena can be better understood by relaxing this assumption. Topics include decision-making under risk, adverse selection, moral hazard, information processing/belief updating, communication, the efficient market hypothesis, firm competition and reputation, advertising and media. The course will develop and use selected tools from probability theory and game theory.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary microeconomic theory. Analysis of the theory of resource allocation and distribution, with major emphasis on systems of markets and prices as a social mechanism for making resource allocation decisions. Topics include the theory of individual choice and demand, the theory of the firm, market equilibrium under competition and monopoly, general equilibrium theory, and welfare economics.An intermediate-level study of contemporary national income, employment, and inflation theory. Consumption, investment, government receipts, government expenditures, money, and interest rates are examined for their determinants, interrelationships, and role in determining the level of aggregate economic activity. Policy implications are drawn from the analysis.An introduction to the data and statistical methods used in economics. A review of the systems that generate economic data and the accuracy of such data is followed by an examination of the statistical methods used in testing the hypotheses of economic theory, both micro- and macro-. Probability, random variables and their distributions, methods of estimating parameters, hypothesis testing, regression, and correlation are covered. The application of multiple regression to economic problems is stressed. Students who have taken Mathematics 2606 265 are encouraged to take Economics 3516 316 instead of this course.An introduction to the data and statistical methods used in economics. A review of the systems that generate economic data and the accuracy of such data is followed by an examination of the statistical methods used in testing the hypotheses of economic theory, both micro- and macro-. Probability, random variables and their distributions, methods of estimating parameters, hypothesis testing, regression, and correlation are covered. The application of multiple regression to economic problems is stressed. Students who have taken Mathematics 2606 265 are encouraged to take Economics 3516 316 instead of this course.A continuation of Economics 260 taught using the tools of standard Intermediate Microeconomics.Seminar. Vast differences in nations long-run growth experience significantly affect the degree of inequality and overall welfare of the global population. Offers both theoretical and empirical analyses of macro determinants of economic growth. Explores the role of such key factors as the accumulation of physical capital and human capital, productivity and technology, natural resources, openness to trade and capital flow, institutions, culture, and geography.Seminar. Standard economics (i.e., neoclassical economics) assumes that individuals are self-interested, rational actors, who optimize well-defined, stable objective functions. Behavioral economics is the study of systematic departures from these assumptions, and the implications for economic outcomes. Topics include errors in information-processing and belief formation, behavioral choice under uncertainty (loss aversion, reference dependence), time inconsistent behavior (self-control problems), and social preferences (altruism, fairness and reciprocity).Seminar. Law and economics is one of the most rapidly growing areas in the social sciences. The field applies the concepts and empirical methods of economics to further our understanding of the legal system. Explores the economic analysis of law and legal institutions, including the economics of torts, contracts, property, crime, courts, and dispute resolution. Also focuses on topics in law and economics such as antitrust and regulation, corporations, the family, labor markets, product liability, and intellectual property. Students are introduced to online sources of information in law, and are required to apply economic reasoning to analyze landmark lawsuits in each of these areas. Not open to students who have credit for Economics 341.Examines current educational issues in the United States and the role schools play in society. Topics include the purpose of schooling; school funding and governance; issues of race, class, and gender; school choice; and the reform movements of the 1990s. The role of schools and colleges in societys pursuit of equality and excellence forms the backdrop of this study.Examines current educational issues in the United States and the role schools play in society. Topics include the purpose of schooling; school funding and governance; issues of race, class, and gender; school choice; and the reform movements of the 1990s. The role of schools and colleges in societys pursuit of equality and excellence forms the backdrop of this study.An examination of the economic, social, political, and pedagogical implications of universal education in American classrooms. Focuses on the right of every child, including physically handicapped, learning disabled, and gifted, to equal educational opportunity. Requires a minimum of twenty-four hours of observation in a local secondary school.Explores the relationship between education and being/becoming human. Topics may be guided by the questions: What does it mean to be an educated person? How can education lead to emancipation? How might teaching and learning lead to the good life? What is our responsibility to teach the next generation? Readings may include works by Hannah Arendt, John Dewey, W. E. B. Du Bois, Plato, Jacques Rancire, among others.Required of all students who seek secondary public school certification, this final course in the student teaching sequence requires that students work full time in a local secondary school from early January to late April. Grading is Credit/D/Fail. Education 304 must be taken concurrently. Students must complete an application and interview.Taken concurrently with Education 302, Student Teaching Practicum. Considers theoretical and practical issues related to effective classroom instruction.An exploration of the educational techniques/methods that human beings have found, across cultures and time, to concentrate, broaden, and deepen awareness of thoughts, emotions, and bodily sensations. Holistic and interdisciplinary lens on the theory and processes of how people learn. Focus on educational models that encourage and foster mindful learning such as Montessori and Waldorf. Seminar-style dialogue on course readings complemented by contemplative practices such as yoga, meditation, tai chi.Provides students with the opportunity to synthesize issues in educational studies addressed in previous coursework. Through an experiential project, students deepen their understanding of how schools both mirror and change the societies that create them. One-half credit. Grading is Credit/D/Fail.Considers the interface between Arabs and Jews as produced on page and screen. Offers both geographical and generic range, bringing into view texts that talk to each other across ethnic, religious, historical, and theoretical boundaries. When these two figures are placed in relation to each other, they must invoke the Middle East, in particular Palestine-Israel: discusses works in translation, fiction and poetry, from the broad region, and may include authors Anton Shammas, Mahmoud Darwish, Ronit Matalon, Shimon Ballas, Haim Hazazz; writers in English such as Naomi Shihab Nye, Ammiel Alcalay, Philip Roth, Edward Said, and Ella Shohat; films by Elia Suleiman (Chronicle of a Disappearance), Khleifi (Wedding in Galilee), Gitai (Kippur), Abu-Assad (Paradise Now), Kolirin (The Bands Visit), Kassovitz (Hate); and visual artists Mona Hatoum and Adi Nes.Practice in developing the skills needed to write and revise college-level expository essays. Explores the close relationship between critical reading and writing. Assignment sequences and different modes of analysis and response enable students to write fully developed expository essays. Does not count toward the major or minor in English.Practice in developing the skills needed to write and revise college-level expository essays. Explores the close relationship between critical reading and writing. Assignment sequences and different modes of analysis and response enable students to write fully developed expository essays. Does not count toward the major or minor in English.Traces a range of dramatic genres, styles, and modes of production from the festival of Dionysus in ancient Greece through the Renaissance and into the global theater of today. Explores the evolution of plot design, with special attention to the politics of playing, the shifting strategies of representing human agency, and contemporary relationships between the theater and other visual media. Authors include Sophocles, Aristophanes, Marlowe, Shakespeare, Behn, Wilde, Beckett, Mamet, Wilson, and Churchill, with secondary readings by Aristotle, Brecht, Artaud, and Grotowski, among others. Students invited to participate in staged readings during class and part of a final group project that includes staging a portion of one of the plays studied.Explores the shapes and seductions of narrative, the stories we dream and imagine, tell or are told. Considers plot design, narrative time, and the history of narrative forms. Of special interest are narrative desire, suspense and suspicion; and graphic fiction and sequential art.Begins with an examination of some technical aspects of fiction writing. In particular, considers those that we tend to take for granted as readers and need to understand better as writers, e.g., point of view, characterization, dialogue, foreshadowing, scene, and summary. Students read and discuss published stories, and work through a series of exercises to write their own stories. Workshop discussion is an integral part.Seminar. An exploration of London as space and character in Victorian literary narratives. Considers such topics as the intersections between identity and urban setting; the relationship between genre and literary space; and the overlaps in mappings of cities and narrative. Consideration of literary and cultural theory and criticism is central. Authors may include Conrad, Dickens, Dixon, Doyle, Gissing, Marsh, and Wilde.Seminar. Examines the rise of and responses to radical writing in the wake of the French Revolution, with a particular focus on the many contexts informing the novel Frankenstein. Focuses on the emergence of feminist critique, radical fiction, philosophical anarchism, and the poetics of non-violent resistance, as well as the defense of tradition and the depiction of revolution as monstrosity. Discusses such authors as Burke, Wollstonecraft, Godwin, Rousseau, and Percy and Mary Shelley in tandem with contemporary critical essays.Seminar. Introduces students to the work of Geoffrey Chaucer (the father of English poetry, as Dryden called him) by way of his dream visions, poems in which the poet-dreamer drifts off to sleep and explores, via medieval astral projection, fantastical mental landscapes. In his dreams, Chaucer visits magical gardens full of talking birds, outer space (the Galaxie, / which men clepeth [call] the Milky Wey), and the virtual realities of his favorite books, like Virgils Aeneid and Ovids Metamorphoses. In order to fully comprehend Chaucers allusions, we will read his dream visions in the contexts of their sources and analogues; in other words, we will follow Chaucers guide to medieval learning. Students will gain reading proficiency in Middle English; no previous experience with Middle English necessary. In the spirit of Chaucers dream visions, which creatively reimagine and adapt older literature, students can opt to substitute creative projects for their final independent research paper. Texts include: Chaucers The Book of the Duchess, The Parliament of Fowls, The House of Fame, and The Legend of Good Women; Ciceros Dream of Scipio, Boethius Consolation of Philosophy, and Le Roman de la rose (The Romance of the Rose).Knowledge of theater history tends to skip from the tragedies of Ancient Greece to Shakespeares Renaissance, leaving the Middle Ages in dark obscurity. This course aims to illuminate the underappreciated treasure trove of medieval drama, a genre that flourished across Europe for more than five centuries. We will cover texts ranging from the tenth-century work of the female playwright Hrotswitha (Strong-Voice) to sixteenth century English drama banned by the Protestant Reformation. Our reading will also span a wide variety of genres: bloody martyrdoms, dirty farces, Robin Hood plays, romances of knights and ladies, moralities, and mysteries. Students will gain reading proficiency in Middle English; no previous experience with Middle English necessary. Texts include: Hrotswitha of Gandersheims Dulcitius; Robyn Hod and the Shryff of Notyngham; Farce nouvelle et fort joyeuse du Pect (The Farce of the Fart); The York Cycle; Mankind; and Fulgens and Lucrece.Examines Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, King Lear, Julius Caesar, Antony and Cleopatra, and Coriolanus in light of recent critical thought. Special attention is given to psychoanalysis, new historicism, and genre theory. Explores various forms of satire and parody in the prose, poetry, drama, and visual art of the Restoration and the Eighteenth Century, as well as the various attempts to censor or otherwise control satire. Works will include Alexander Popes Rape of the Lock, John Gays Beggars Opera, Jonathan Swifts Gullivers Travels, Henry Fieldings Tom Jones, and the paintings and prints of William Hogarth. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majors.Investigates constructions of sexuality in English romantic writing. Examines tales of seduction by supernatural or demonic figures; the sexualized world of the Gothic; the Byronic hero; the yearning for an eroticized muse or goddess; and same-sex desire in travel writing, orientalist fantasy, diary, and realist fiction. Discusses the place of such writing in the history of sexuality, repression, the unconscious, and the sublime. Authors may include Austen, Byron, Coleridge, Keats, Lister, Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley, and Wollstonecraft, alongside secondary, theoretical, and historical works.Focusing primarily on the novel, this course examines Victorian narrative form. We will consider whether there are certain types of plots that are peculiar to the period; the ways in which characters develop (or not) as stories unravel; and how literary elements such as description, dialogue, and setting emerge in Victorian texts. Along the way, we will analyze the economic, social, and cultural factors that determine aspects of the novel. Authors may include Emily Bront??, Wilkie Collins, Charles Dickens, George Eliot, Elizabeth Gaskell, and Anthony Trollope.Considers Irish writing and film and the way they intersect in the emergence into and away from the modern. Likely topics include linguistic and national dispossession; the supernatural or surreal, pastoral, and urban traditions; the Celtic Twilight versus Modernism; Celtic Tiger vs globalism. Authors and directors may include Sheridan Le Fanu, Yeats, Joyce, Seamus Heaney, Eavan Boland, Neil Jordan, Ken Loach, John Ford, Pat Murphy, Martin McDonagh.Considers Irish writing and film and the way they intersect in the emergence into and away from the modern. Likely topics include linguistic and national dispossession; the supernatural or surreal, pastoral, and urban traditions; the Celtic Twilight versus Modernism; Celtic Tiger vs globalism. Authors and directors may include Sheridan Le Fanu, Yeats, Joyce, Seamus Heaney, Eavan Boland, Neil Jordan, Ken Loach, John Ford, Pat Murphy, Martin McDonagh.Homosexuality and its conceptual twin, heterosexuality, are surprisingly late coinages. So what was sex like before such concepts organized the sphere of intimate life in America? Was it a set of bodily practices? An aspect of a persons identity? Was sexuality something an individual could be said to possess? What forms of contact, invest attachment, or imagination could even be counted as sex, and why? Authors may include Whitman, Thoreau, Jewett, Melville, Hawthorne, James, Douglas, Dickinson, and Joseph Smith.Historical survey of nineteenth-century American fiction, including works by Washington Irving, Catherine Sedgwick, Herman Melville, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Frank Webb, Harriet Beecher Stowe, William Wells Brown, Mark Twain, Frank Norris, Henry James, John DeForest, Edith Wharton, William Dean Howells, and Charles Chesnutt. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Readings of Contemporary Poetic Projects. Poets may include Philip Levine, Louise Gluck, Laurie Scheck, Mark Doty, and Amy Clampitt. Emphasis on different modes of poetic influence, the role of high and low culture in these canons and the role of narrative, biography, mythology and performativity. We will also consider the role of poetry in the public sphere.Considers the intertwined fates of slavery and sentiment in the lead-up to, and the years following, the Civil War. At its center is Harriet Beecher Stowes 1852 Uncle Toms Cabin. Tracks the ramifying effects of this antebellum mega-bestseller, in such disparate realms as literary and print culture, political counter-publics, and law. Explores in particular how responses to the novel in Southern, British, and African-American literary discourses ring complex changes on the major tropes of Stowes novel, and on the received wisdom about Uncle Tom that persists into today. Note: This course fulfills the literature of the Americas requirement for English majors.Examines the history and contributions of African Americans to United States theater from the early blackface minstrel tradition, to the revolutionary theater of the Black Arts writers, to more recent postmodernist stage spectacles. Among other concerns, such works often dramatize the efforts of African Americans to negotiate ongoing tensions between individual needs and group demands that result from historically changing forms of racial marginalization. A particular goal is to highlight what Kimberly Benston has termed the expressive agency with which black writers and performers have imbued their theatrical presentations. Potential authors include Zora Neale Hurston, Langston Hughes, Lorraine Hansberry, Amiri Baraka, Ron Milner, Adrienne Kennedy, Ntozake Shange, George C. Wolfe, Anna Deavere Smith, Afro Pomo Homos, and August Wilson. -gk927c2ySurveys developments in Asian American literature since 2000, and asks how post-millennial fictions revise and extend the core concerns of earlier writing. If Asian American writers have long been preoccupied with questions of ethnic identity and national belonging, recent works tackle these themes within new contexts of transnationalism, the post-9/11 security state, and the global financial crisis. Considers the diverse functions of the contemporary Asian American novelas autobiography and narrative of racial passing, as social satire and tragicomedy, and as cultural memory and multiracial national history.Explores some of the most important and compelling schools of literary and cultural theory from the past two centuries as they have defined modern and postmodern intellectual life. Situates critical movements such as psychoanalysis, feminism, structuralism, deconstruction, race theory, and cultural studies in their historical and intellectual context while examining both textual and non-textual case studies. Students will develop research projects based on our readings but tailored to their own interests and knowledge. Authors include Marx, Freud, Adorno, Benjamin, Lacan, Foucault, Jameson, Eagleton, Butler, Sedgwick, and iek.Seminar. Fiction shows us the rules of life: how these rules confine us, free us, shape us, threaten us, and make us who we are. Within the rules of life theres one set for children, another for adults, that much is clear. But what about adolescents? Whose rules do they play by? And what do these rules have to say about the experience and expression of sexuality? Adolescents may be too young and vulnerable to withstand life under adult rules, but too smart and full of emotion to stand the old rules of childhood. The result can be chaos, passion, drama, and great discovery. (Throw into the mix that the rules themselves change generation by generation with the larger patterns of history, and the chaos and passion grow even wilder.) In this seminar we will examine artistic representations of adolescent sexual life during and after the great shift in sexual norms of the 1960s. Creative worknovels, short stories, narrative nonfiction, and filmswill be our primary source material, with scholarly readings supporting our study. We will investigate such topics as subject/object dichotomies, LGBTQ identities, violence, virginity, pleasure, health education, narrative ownership, and the politics of empowerment. Students will write both analytic papers and creative prose.Presumes a familiarity with the mechanics of fiction and, ideally, previous experience in a fiction workshop. Uses published stories and stories by students to explore questions of voice and tone, structure and plot, how to deepen ones characters, and how to make stories resonate at a higher level. Students write several stories during the semester and revise at least one. Workshop discussion and critiques are an integral part.A creative-nonfiction writing course that will take science as its canvas. Its goal is to hone students'' ability to write long-form, narrative prose. Students will learn how to use fiction techniques to describe factual subjects, and will use those techniques to compose a full-length, New-Yorker style magazine article about science, a scientist, or nature subject (topics and approaches may vary widely). Along the way, we will discuss the use of metaphor, structure, tone, pacing, and point of view, as well as accuracy, technical literacy, interview techniques, and reporting ethics. For science students, this course will teach a way to communicate the power of science to a general audience. For the writing student, this course will adopt some of science''s central tenets (e.g., its devotion to accurate observation) as essentials in the creative writer''s craft, and will provide tools necessary for writing professional-level narrative nonfiction on any subject, scientific or not.Explores a spectrum of films produced since 1950 that engage African American cultural experience. Topics may include black-white buddy movies, the L.A. Rebellion, blaxploitation, the hood genre, cult classics, comedy and cross-dressing, and romance dramas. Of special interest will be the documentary impulse in contemporary African American film; gender, sexuality, and cultural images; the politics of interpretationwriters, filmmakers, critics, and audiences; and the urban context and the economics of alienation. Extensive readings in film and cultural theory and criticism.Seminar. Can literature be produced within a totalitarian regime where public expression is tightly controlled by the state? Or does political repression ironically foster creative means of literary circumvention? These are some central questions raised by the controversial awarding of the 2012 Nobel Prize in Literature to Mo Yan. Focusing on contemporary China as a case study, explores the relation between aesthetics and politics via a range of writers, from establishment novelists to dissidents in exile to Internet activists. Authors may include Mo Yan, Su Tong, Yu Hua, Liu Xiaobo, Liao Yiwu, Yan Lianke, Ai Weiwei, and Han Han. Theoretical reference points may include Lukacs, Arendt, Mao, Boym, Barme, and Evasdottir.Examines the convergence of new modes of scientific knowledge and new genres of fiction in the period between 1500 and 1650, when writers such as Philip Sidney, William Shakespeare, and Margaret Cavendish redefined imaginative literature as a medium for particular kinds of knowledge. Explores representative genres of fiction from the period as they both registered scientific discoveries such as the telescope and constructed new literary forms as tools of scientific inquiry. Topics include utopian technologies, alchemy and sexuality, natural philosophy, and the science of humanism. Authors (in addition to those mentioned above) include Thomas More, Christopher Marlowe, John Donne, and Ben Jonson. Secondary readings drawn from Aristotle, Robert Boyle, Francis Bacon, Bruno Latour, Peter Dear, Lawrence Principe, Steven Shapin, Bruce Moran, and Elizabeth Spiller. Note: This course fulfills the pre-1800 literature requirement for English majorsWhat accounts for the persistence of the frontier myth in American history, and why do Americans continue to find the idea so attractive? Explores the creation of and disputes over what became of the western United States from 1763 to the present. Topics include Euro-American relations with Native Americans; the creation of borders and national identities; the effect of nature and ideology; the role of labor and gender in the backcountry; and the enduring influence of frontier imagery in popular culture.An introduction to the physics of environmental issues, including past climates, anthropogenic climate change, ozone destruction, and energy production and efficiency.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.The fundamentals of geological, physical, chemical, and biological oceanography: tectonic evolution of the ocean basins; sedimentation as a record of ocean history; global ocean circulation, waves, and tides; chemical cycles; ocean ecosystems and productivity; and the oceans role in climate change. Weekly labs and fieldwork demonstrate these principles in the setting of Casco Bay and the Gulf of Maine. Students complete a field-based research project on coastal oceanography.An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).An introduction to aspects of geology and hydrology that affect the environment and land use. Topics include lakes, watersheds and surface-water quality, groundwater contamination, coastal erosion, and landslides. Weekly labs and fieldwork examine local environmental problems affecting Maines rivers, lakes, and coast. Students complete a community-based research project on Maine water quality. Formerly Geology 100 (same as Environmental Studies 100).Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Functioning of the earth system is defined by the complex and fascinating interaction of processes within and between four principal spheres: land, air, water, and life. Leverages key principles of environmental chemistry and ecology to unravel the intricate connectedness of natural phenomena and ecosystem function. Fundamental biological and chemical concepts are used to understand the science behind the environmental dilemmas facing societies as a consequence of human activities. Laboratory sessions consist of local field trips, laboratory experiments, group research, case study exercises, and discussions of current and classic scientific literature.Explores the historical, current, and future demands of society on the natural resources of the earth and the ocean. Discusses the formation and extraction of salt, gold, diamonds, rare earth elements, coal, oil, natural gas, and renewable energies (e.g., tidal, geothermal, solar, wind). Examines how policies for these resources are written and revised to reflect changing societal values. Students complete a research project that explores the intersection of natural resources and society.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Focuses on two key processes that influence human and wildlife exposure to potentially harmful substanceschemical speciation and transformation. Equilibrium principles as applied to acid-base, complexation, precipitation, and dissolution reactions are used to explore organic and inorganic compound speciation in natural and polluted waters; quantitative approaches are emphasized. Weekly laboratory sections are concerned with the detection and quantification of organic and inorganic compounds in air, water, and soils/sediments.Develops the theory and practical skills to apply genetic data to ecological questions. Topics will include population connectivity and dispersal, mating systems, detecting natural selection in the wild, and the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Lectures and discussions will develop theoretical understanding through worked examples. The laboratory provides hands on experience in generating genetic data from marine populations, including modules on sampling design, DNA/RNA extraction, Sanger and Next Generation Sequencing technology, and data analysis through modeling.Develops the theory and practical skills to apply genetic data to ecological questions. Topics will include population connectivity and dispersal, mating systems, detecting natural selection in the wild, and the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Lectures and discussions will develop theoretical understanding through worked examples. The laboratory provides hands on experience in generating genetic data from marine populations, including modules on sampling design, DNA/RNA extraction, Sanger and Next Generation Sequencing technology, and data analysis through modeling.A study of the economic issues surrounding the existence and use of renewable natural resources (e.g., forestry/land use, fisheries, water, ecosystems, and the effectiveness of antibiotics) and exhaustible resources (such as minerals, fossil fuels, and old growth forest). A basic framework is first developed for determining economically efficient use of resources over time, then extended to consider objectives other than efficiency, as well as the distinguishing biological, ecological, physical, political, and social attributes of each resource. Uncertainty, common property, and various regulatory instruments are discussed, as well as alternatives to government intervention and/or privatization.Over the last 20,000 years, the Earth''s environment has changed in both subtle and dramatic ways. Some changes and attributable to natural processes and variation, some have been triggered by human activities. Referring to anthropological and archaeological studies, and research on past and contemporary local, regional, and global environments, the course examines the complex and diverse relationship between cultures and the Earth''s dynamic environment. A previous science course is recommended.Applies sociological insights to investigating the ways that humans shape and are shaped by their ecological surroundings. Introduces theories and concepts for exploring how western society and more specifically contemporary American society interact with nature. Reviews central academic questions, including social constructions of nature and perceptions of ecological risks, and drawing from complementary readings and student-led dialogue, examines in greater depth ongoing struggles over conservation, sustainability, development, and social justice.Explores relationships between ideas of nature, human transformations of the environment, and the effect of the physical environment upon humans through time in North America. Topics include the Columbian exchange and colonialism; links between ecological change and race, class, and gender relations; the role of science and technology; literary and artistic perspectives of nature; agriculture, industrialization, and urbanization; and the rise of modern environmentalism.Survey of the making of North America from initial contact between Europeans and Africans and Native Americans to the creation of the continent''s three largest nations by the mid-nineteenth century: Canada, Mexico, and the United States. Topics include the history of Native populations before and after contact; geopolitical and imperial rivalries that propelled European conquests of the Americas; evolution of free and coerced labor systems; environmental transformations of the continent''s diverse landscapes and peoples; formation of colonial settler societies; and the emergence of distinct national identities and cultures in former European colonies. Students write several papers and engage in weekly discussion based upon primary and secondary documents, art, literature, and material culture.Seminar. Examines the evolution of various Maine social and ecological communitiesinland, hill country, and coastal. Begins with the contact of European and Native American cultures, examines the transfer of English and European agricultural traditions in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and explores the development of diverse geographic, economic, ethnic, and cultural communities during the nineteenth and into the early twentieth centuries.The modern world is experiencing rapid climate warming and some parts extreme drought, which will have dramatic impacts on ecosystems and human societies. How do contemporary warming and aridity compare to past changes in climate over the last billion years? Are modern changes human-caused or part of the natural variability in the climate system? What effects did past changes have on global ecosystems and human societies? Students use environmental records from rocks, soils, ocean cores, ice cores, lake cores, fossil plants, and tree rings to assemble proxies of past changes in climate, atmospheric CO2, and disturbance to examine several issues: long-term carbon cycling and climate, major extinction events, the rise of C4 photosynthesis and the evolution of grazing mammals, orbital forcing and glacial cycles, glacial refugia and post-glacial species migrations, climate change and the rise and collapse of human civilizations, climate/overkill hypothesis of Pleistocene megafauna, climate variability, drought cycles, climate change impacts on disturbances (fire and hurricanes), and determining natural variability vs. human-caused climate changeAlthough we live in a world where global food abundance is at record highs, and prices are at historic lows, our modern food system has its share of challenges. Methods of food production, marketing, distribution, and consumption have spawned waves of criticism, including concerns about farm economics, food justice, worker safety, animal welfare, famine, ecological degradation, climate change, biotechnology, and public health. In the wake of these challenges, alternative systems of food production, distribution, and consumption are beginning to emerge. An interdisciplinary exploration of three questions: How do we produce and eat food? What major social and environmental consequences have arisen from food production and consumption? What should we produce and eat? Examines the historical origins agriculture, social and environmental problems arising from these transitions, and social movements oriented towards making our food system more ecologically sustainable and socially just. Current or prior enrollment in Environmental Studies 201, 202, and 203 is recommended.Examines philosophical, moral, political, and policy questions regarding various environmental issues. Possible topics include the ethics of climate change policy, our obligations to future generations, benefit-cost analysis vs. the precautionary principle as a decision-making instrument, and the relationship between justice and sustainability.An examination of literary, artistic, and cinematic representations of the city of Berlin during three distinct time periods: the Roaring 20s, the Cold War, and the post-Wall period. Explores the dramatic cultural, political, and physical transformations that Berlin underwent during the twentieth century and thereby illustrates the central role that Berlin played, and continues to play, in European history and culture, as well as in the American cultural imagination. For each time period studied, compares Anglo-American representations of Berlin with those produced by German artists and writers, and investigates how, why, and to what extent Berlin has retained its status as one of the most quintessentially modern cities in the world. No knowledge of German is required.An examination of literary, artistic, and cinematic representations of the city of Berlin during three distinct time periods: the Roaring 20s, the Cold War, and the post-Wall period. Explores the dramatic cultural, political, and physical transformations that Berlin underwent during the twentieth century and thereby illustrates the central role that Berlin played, and continues to play, in European history and culture, as well as in the American cultural imagination. For each time period studied, compares Anglo-American representations of Berlin with those produced by German artists and writers, and investigates how, why, and to what extent Berlin has retained its status as one of the most quintessentially modern cities in the world. No knowledge of German is required.A consideration of the diverse production contexts and political circumstances influencing cinema history in the sound era. National film movements to be studied include Neorealism, the French New Wave, and the New German Cinema, as well as the coming of age of Asian and Australian film. Also explores the shift away from studio production in the United States, the major regulatory systems, and the changes in popular film genres. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.Considers the films of Alfred Hitchcock from his career in British silent cinema to the Hollywood productions of the 1970s. Examines his working methods and style of visual composition, as well as consistent themes and characterizations. Of particular interest is his adaptation of Daphne du Mauriers Rebecca as a way of exploring the tensions between literary sources and film, and between British and American production contexts. Ends with a brief look at Hitchcocks television career and his influence on recent film. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.Examines documentary history, theory, criticism, and practice. From the actuality films of the Lumire brothers to the theatrical reality of Errol Morris, documentaries work to persuade audiences to see the world in particular ways. Focuses on the debates that surround nonfiction narrative films, especially their contentious claims to represent reality, by examining films that work with and against notions of objectivity, subjectivity, power, knowledge, and truth. Explores the textual strategies that create documentary films all-important reality effect. Attendance at weekly evening screenings is required.Introduces students to films produced in the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Places national cinema in a transnational framework and explores how cinema as a sign system constructs sociocultural and aesthetic meanings. Students will benefit most by bringing both an open mind toward non-Western cultural texts, and a critical eye for visual art.Introduces students to films produced in the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Places national cinema in a transnational framework and explores how cinema as a sign system constructs sociocultural and aesthetic meanings. Students will benefit most by bringing both an open mind toward non-Western cultural texts, and a critical eye for visual art.Considers Irish writing and film and the way they intersect in the emergence into and away from the modern. Likely topics include linguistic and national dispossession; the supernatural or surreal, pastoral, and urban traditions; the Celtic Twilight versus Modernism; Celtic Tiger vs globalism. Authors and directors may include Sheridan Le Fanu, Yeats, Joyce, Seamus Heaney, Eavan Boland, Neil Jordan, Ken Loach, John Ford, Pat Murphy, Martin McDonagh.Considers Irish writing and film and the way they intersect in the emergence into and away from the modern. Likely topics include linguistic and national dispossession; the supernatural or surreal, pastoral, and urban traditions; the Celtic Twilight versus Modernism; Celtic Tiger vs globalism. Authors and directors may include Sheridan Le Fanu, Yeats, Joyce, Seamus Heaney, Eavan Boland, Neil Jordan, Ken Loach, John Ford, Pat Murphy, Martin McDonagh.An introduction to Italian cinema with an emphasis on Neorealism and its relationship to other genres, including Comedy Italian Style, the Spaghetti Western, the horror film, the "mondo" (shock documentary), and mafia movies, among others. Readings and discussions situate films within their social and historical contexts, and explore contemporary critical debates about the place of radical politics in Italian cinema (a hallmark of Neorealism), the division between art films and popular cinema, and the relevance of the concept of an Italian national cinema in an increasingly globalized world. No prerequisite required. Taught in English (films screened in Italian with English subtitles).Explores a spectrum of films produced since 1950 that engage African American cultural experience. Topics may include black-white buddy movies, the L.A. Rebellion, blaxploitation, the hood genre, cult classics, comedy and cross-dressing, and romance dramas. Of special interest will be the documentary impulse in contemporary African American film; gender, sexuality, and cultural images; the politics of interpretationwriters, filmmakers, critics, and audiences; and the urban context and the economics of alienation. Extensive readings in film and cultural theory and criticism.A continuation of French 101. A study of the basic forms, structures, and vocabulary. Emphasis on listening comprehension and spoken French. During the second semester, more stress is placed on reading and writing. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant, plus regular language laboratory assignments.Continued development of oral and written skills; course focus shifts from grammar to reading. Short readings from French literature form the basis for the expansion of vocabulary and analytical skills. Active use of French in class discussions and conversation sessions with French assistants. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with teaching fellow.An introduction to contemporary France through newspapers, magazines, television, music, and film. Emphasis is on enhancing communicative proficiency in French and increasing cultural understanding prior to study abroad in France.An introduction to contemporary France through newspapers, magazines, television, music, and film. Emphasis is on enhancing communicative proficiency in French and increasing cultural understanding prior to study abroad in France.Introduces students to the literary tradition of France from 1789 to the present. Focus on major authors and literary movements in historical and cultural context.Introduces students to the literary tradition of the contemporary Francophone world. Focuses on major authors and literary movements in historical and cultural context. Conducted in French.A study of writing identity and the city in Qubec novels from the 1960s to the present, considering Montral as a primary site of foundational cultural and social transformations that continue to engender, through writing, new social possibilities and configurations. Related issues to be examined include how authors write cultural, political, and gender identity; questions of nationalism; marginalization; and the city and text as places for both understanding and imagining a nation. Authors studied may include Gabrielle Roy, Hubert Aquin, Monique LaRue, Jacques Godbout, Nicole Brossard, and Carole David.History has retained the names of great male Caribbean heroes and freedom fighters during slavery such as the Haitians, Mackandal or Toussaint Louverture, the Jamaican, Cudjoe or the Cuban Coba. Enslaved Africans who rebelled against oppression and fled from the plantation system are called maroons and their act, marronage. Except for Queen Nanny of the Jamaican Blue Mountains, only male names have been consecrated as maroons. Yet, enslaved women did fight against slavery and practice marronage. Caribbean writers have made a point of bringing to memory forgotten acts of marronage by women during slavery or shortly thereafter. This course proposes to examine the fictional treatment French-speaking Caribbean authors grant to African or Afro-descent women who historically rebelled against slavery and colonization. The literary works will be studied against the backdrop of douboutism, a conceptual framework derived from the common perception about women in the French Caribbean as expressed in the Creole say fanm doubout which means strong woman. Authors studied may include Suzanne Dracius (Martinique), Fabienne Kanor (Martinique), Andr Schwart-Bart (Guadeloupe), Maryse Cond (Guadeloupe), Evelyn Trouillot (Haiti). Conducted in French.Seminar. An exploration of London as space and character in Victorian literary narratives. Considers such topics as the intersections between identity and urban setting; the relationship between genre and literary space; and the overlaps in mappings of cities and narrative. Consideration of literary and cultural theory and criticism is central. Authors may include Conrad, Dickens, Dixon, Doyle, Gissing, Marsh, and Wilde.Investigates constructions of sexuality in English romantic writing. Examines tales of seduction by supernatural or demonic figures; the sexualized world of the Gothic; the Byronic hero; the yearning for an eroticized muse or goddess; and same-sex desire in travel writing, orientalist fantasy, diary, and realist fiction. Discusses the place of such writing in the history of sexuality, repression, the unconscious, and the sublime. Authors may include Austen, Byron, Coleridge, Keats, Lister, Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley, and Wollstonecraft, alongside secondary, theoretical, and historical works.Homosexuality and its conceptual twin, heterosexuality, are surprisingly late coinages. So what was sex like before such concepts organized the sphere of intimate life in America? Was it a set of bodily practices? An aspect of a persons identity? Was sexuality something an individual could be said to possess? What forms of contact, invest attachment, or imagination could even be counted as sex, and why? Authors may include Whitman, Thoreau, Jewett, Melville, Hawthorne, James, Douglas, Dickinson, and Joseph Smith.Seminar. Examines the current scholarship on gender and sexuality in modern Eastern Europe: the countries of the former Soviet Union, the successor states of Yugoslavia, Poland, Hungary, Romania, The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Albania. Focusing on research produced by academics based in the region, examines the dialogue and interchange of ideas between East and West, and how knowledge about the region is dialectically produced by both Western feminists and East European gender studies scholars. Topics include the women question before 1989; nationalism, fertility, and population decline; patterns and expectations for family formation; the politics of EU gender mainstreaming; visual representations in television and film; social movements; work; romance and intimacy; spirituality; and the status of academic gender studies in the region.An interdisciplinary introduction to the issues, perspectives, and findings of the new scholarship that examines the role of gender in the construction of knowledge. Explores what happens when women become the subjects of study; what is learned about women; what is learned about gender; and how disciplinary knowledge itself is changed.Seminar. An exploration of London as space and character in Victorian literary narratives. Considers such topics as the intersections between identity and urban setting; the relationship between genre and literary space; and the overlaps in mappings of cities and narrative. Consideration of literary and cultural theory and criticism is central. Authors may include Conrad, Dickens, Dixon, Doyle, Gissing, Marsh, and Wilde.Seminar. Pentecostalism is a form of Christianity centered on the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Pentecostals speak in tongues, heal, prophesize, see visions, and exorcise demons. By many accounts, Pentecostalism is the fastest-growing religion in the world. While the Pentecostal population is difficult to count, current estimates place the worlds total number of adherents at close to 600 million, of whom 75% are women. With particular attention to its intersections with gender, ethnicity, and class, explores the religions appeal; its impact on devotees lives; and resultant local, regional, and global implications. Case studies include the Americas, the Caribbean, and Africa.Investigates constructions of sexuality in English romantic writing. Examines tales of seduction by supernatural or demonic figures; the sexualized world of the Gothic; the Byronic hero; the yearning for an eroticized muse or goddess; and same-sex desire in travel writing, orientalist fantasy, diary, and realist fiction. Discusses the place of such writing in the history of sexuality, repression, the unconscious, and the sublime. Authors may include Austen, Byron, Coleridge, Keats, Lister, Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley, and Wollstonecraft, alongside secondary, theoretical, and historical works.From possessing spirits and serpentine creatures to hungry ghosts and spectral visions, Japanese literary history is alive with supernatural beings. The focus of study ranges from the earliest times to modernity, examining these motifs in both historical and theoretical contexts. Readings pose the following broad questions: How do representations of the supernatural function in both creation myths of the ancient past and the rational narratives of the modern nation? What is the relationship between liminal beings and a societys notion of purity? How may we understand the uncanny return of dead spirits in medieval Japanese drama? How does the construction of demonic female sexuality vary between medieval and modern Japan? Draws on various genres of representation, from legends and novels to drama, paintings, and cinema. Students develop an appreciation of the hold that creatures from the other side maintain over our cultural and social imagination.A social history of American women from the colonial period through the nineteenth century. Examines womens changing roles in both public and private spheres; the circumstances of womens lives as these were shaped by class, ethnic, and racial differences; the recurring conflict between the ideals of womanhood and the realities of womens experience; and focuses on family responsibilities, paid and unpaid work, religion, education, reform, womens rights, and feminism.Homosexuality and its conceptual twin, heterosexuality, are surprisingly late coinages. So what was sex like before such concepts organized the sphere of intimate life in America? Was it a set of bodily practices? An aspect of a persons identity? Was sexuality something an individual could be said to possess? What forms of contact, invest attachment, or imagination could even be counted as sex, and why? Authors may include Whitman, Thoreau, Jewett, Melville, Hawthorne, James, Douglas, Dickinson, and Joseph Smith.Seminar. Examines the current scholarship on gender and sexuality in modern Eastern Europe: the countries of the former Soviet Union, the successor states of Yugoslavia, Poland, Hungary, Romania, The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Albania. Focusing on research produced by academics based in the region, examines the dialogue and interchange of ideas between East and West, and how knowledge about the region is dialectically produced by both Western feminists and East European gender studies scholars. Topics include the women question before 1989; nationalism, fertility, and population decline; patterns and expectations for family formation; the politics of EU gender mainstreaming; visual representations in television and film; social movements; work; romance and intimacy; spirituality; and the status of academic gender studies in the region.Seminar. Fiction shows us the rules of life: how these rules confine us, free us, shape us, threaten us, and make us who we are. Within the rules of life theres one set for children, another for adults, that much is clear. But what about adolescents? Whose rules do they play by? And what do these rules have to say about the experience and expression of sexuality? Adolescents may be too young and vulnerable to withstand life under adult rules, but too smart and full of emotion to stand the old rules of childhood. The result can be chaos, passion, drama, and great discovery. (Throw into the mix that the rules themselves change generation by generation with the larger patterns of history, and the chaos and passion grow even wilder.) In this seminar we will examine artistic representations of adolescent sexual life during and after the great shift in sexual norms of the 1960s. Creative worknovels, short stories, narrative nonfiction, and filmswill be our primary source material, with scholarly readings supporting our study. We will investigate such topics as subject/object dichotomies, LGBTQ identities, violence, virginity, pleasure, health education, narrative ownership, and the politics of empowerment. Students will write both analytic papers and creative prose.Seminar. Examines the rise of and responses to radical writing in the wake of the French Revolution, with a particular focus on the many contexts informing the novel Frankenstein. Focuses on the emergence of feminist critique, radical fiction, philosophical anarchism, and the poetics of non-violent resistance, as well as the defense of tradition and the depiction of revolution as monstrosity. Discusses such authors as Burke, Wollstonecraft, Godwin, Rousseau, and Percy and Mary Shelley in tandem with contemporary critical essays.Employs gender as a theoretical tool to investigate the production, consumption, and representation of popular music in the U.S. and around the world. Examines how gender and racial codes have been used historically, for example to describe music as authentic (rap, rock) or commercial (pop, new wave), and at how these codes may have traveled, changed, or re-appeared in new guises over the decades. Considers how gender and sexuality are inscribed at every level of popular music as well as how music-makers and consumers have manipulated these representations to transgress normative codes and open up new spaces in popular culture for a range of sexual and gender expressions.History has retained the names of great male Caribbean heroes and freedom fighters during slavery such as the Haitians, Mackandal or Toussaint Louverture, the Jamaican, Cudjoe or the Cuban Coba. Enslaved Africans who rebelled against oppression and fled from the plantation system are called maroons and their act, marronage. Except for Queen Nanny of the Jamaican Blue Mountains, only male names have been consecrated as maroons. Yet, enslaved women did fight against slavery and practice marronage. Caribbean writers have made a point of bringing to memory forgotten acts of marronage by women during slavery or shortly thereafter. This course proposes to examine the fictional treatment French-speaking Caribbean authors grant to African or Afro-descent women who historically rebelled against slavery and colonization. The literary works will be studied against the backdrop of douboutism, a conceptual framework derived from the common perception about women in the French Caribbean as expressed in the Creole say fanm doubout which means strong woman. Authors studied may include Suzanne Dracius (Martinique), Fabienne Kanor (Martinique), Andr Schwart-Bart (Guadeloupe), Maryse Cond (Guadeloupe), Evelyn Trouillot (Haiti). Conducted in French.Explores how research and scholarship on gender can be an engine for social change. Students learn how to use the different tools of the scholar: interviews, surveys, oral history, archival research, participant observation, and discourse analysis. Through a semester-long research project, each student has a hands-on experience of designing and implementing an in-depth study on the gender issue of the students choice. Open to gender and womens studies majors and minors, or with permission of the instructor.Women have historically exerted their voice and power through writing, although the writing tradesjournalism and publishinghave often been unwelcoming to their presence. This class will examine reporting and writing by and about women, and will engage students in the practice of writing about modern womens concerns and lives. This is a hands-on workshop class, a laboratory where students will produce their own investigative, magazine-style project related to women or gender, as we study the works of major writers who have confronted womens conditions and explored womens lives.What kind of stories do bodies tell or conceal? How are those stories affected by living in a gendered body/subject? How do embodied stories relate to history and social realities? These are some of the questions addressed in this study of contemporary writing by women from the Hispanic Caribbean and the United States Latina/Chicana communities. Films and popular culture dialogue with literary works and feminist theory to enhance the course examination of the relation of bodies and sexuality to social power, and the role of this relation in the shaping of both personal and national identities Authors include Julia lvarez, Fanny Buitrago, Magali Garca Ramis, Judith Ortiz Cofer, and Mayra Santos-Febres, among others.Taught in Spanish with readings in Spanish and English.An examination of the central role that images of the female nude played in the development of modernist art between 1860 and the 1920s. Topics include the tradition of the female nude in art; the gendered dynamics of modernism; and the social, cultural, and artistic meaning of nudity. Artists considered include Manet, Degas, Czanne, Picasso, and Valadon.Continuation of German 101. Equivalent of German 101 is required.Continuation of German 101. Equivalent of German 101 is required.An examination of literary, artistic, and cinematic representations of the city of Berlin during three distinct time periods: the Roaring 20s, the Cold War, and the post-Wall period. Explores the dramatic cultural, political, and physical transformations that Berlin underwent during the twentieth century and thereby illustrates the central role that Berlin played, and continues to play, in European history and culture, as well as in the American cultural imagination. For each time period studied, compares Anglo-American representations of Berlin with those produced by German artists and writers, and investigates how, why, and to what extent Berlin has retained its status as one of the most quintessentially modern cities in the world. No knowledge of German is required.An examination of literary, artistic, and cinematic representations of the city of Berlin during three distinct time periods: the Roaring 20s, the Cold War, and the post-Wall period. Explores the dramatic cultural, political, and physical transformations that Berlin underwent during the twentieth century and thereby illustrates the central role that Berlin played, and continues to play, in European history and culture, as well as in the American cultural imagination. For each time period studied, compares Anglo-American representations of Berlin with those produced by German artists and writers, and investigates how, why, and to what extent Berlin has retained its status as one of the most quintessentially modern cities in the world. No knowledge of German is required.Continuation of German 203. Equivalent of German 203 is required.Continuation of German 203. Equivalent of German 203 is required.Designed to explore aspects of contemporary German language and culture beyond literature and film, such as in the contexts of business, politics and law, environmental policy and science. Students acquire cultural competence through specialized linguistic and interpretive skills and appropriate techniques of translation. Focus on discipline-specific genres and discourses (report, prospectus, analysis and briefing papers, etc.) and across media (columns, blogs, television, news, statistics). Combines in-class forms of assessment (quizzes, presentations) with shorter papers and one discipline-specific translation project. Equivalent of German 2204 (204) required; German 2205 (205) recommended.Designed to be an introduction to the critical reading of texts by genre (e.g., prose fiction and nonfiction, lyric poetry, drama, opera, film) in the context of German intellectual, political, and social history. Focuses on various themes and periods. Develops students sensitivity to generic structures and introduces terminology for describing and analyzing texts in historical and cross-cultural contexts. Weekly individual sessions with the Teaching Fellow from the Johannes-Gutenberg-Universitt-Mainz.Designed to explore aspects of contemporary German language and culture beyond literature and film, such as in the contexts of business, politics and law, environmental policy and science. Students acquire cultural competence through specialized linguistic and interpretive skills and appropriate techniques of translation. Focus on discipline-specific genres and discourses (report, prospectus, analysis and briefing papers, etc.) and across media (columns, blogs, television, news, statistics). Combines forms of in-class assessment (quizzes, presentations) with concise papers of different genres, discipline-specific translation and individual and/or group research projects. One previous 3000-level course in German recommendedAn examination of selected masterworks of the rare and problematic German-language comedy from the Enlightenment to Post-Unification in historical and cultural contexts. Particular attention is paid to the comedic works of Lessing, Kleist, Wagner, Hofmannsthal, Zuckmayer, Drrenmatt and Levy. Three questions are posed: (1) Why are there so few German literary comedies? (2) How did German comedic writerswith their attention to psychological, historical, and sociological detailform their own tradition in which they responded to each other over two centuries? (3) To what extent did writers from other cultures inspire German comedic playwrights? In addition to a close reading of texts, filmed stage productions and cinematic adaptations are examined.Provides a comprehensive overview of the American political process. Specifically, traces the foundations of American government (the Constitution, federalism, civil rights, and civil liberties), its political institutions (Congress, Presidency, courts, and bureaucracy), and its electoral processes (elections, voting, and political parties). Also examines other influences, such as public opinion and the mass media, which fall outside the traditional institutional boundaries, but have an increasingly large effect on political outcomes.Provides a broad introduction to key concepts in comparative politics. Most generally, asks why states are governed differently, both historically and in contemporary politics. Begins by examining foundational texts, including works by Marx, Smith, and Weber. Surveys subfields within comparative politics (the state, regime types, nations and nationalism, party systems, development, and civil society) to familiarize students with major debates and questions.Provides a broad introduction to the study of international relations. Designed to strike a balance between empirical and historical knowledge and the obligatory theoretical understanding and schools of thought in IR. Designed as an introductory course to familiarize students with no prior background in the subject, and recommended for first- and second-year students intending to take upper-level international relations courses.An examination of the presidency in the American political system, including the road to the White House (party nomination process and role of the electoral college), advisory systems, the institutional presidency, relations with Congress and the courts, and decision-making in the White House. Drawing upon the instructors own research and a growing body of literature in this area, the role of women as advisors within the White House and executive branch, and influence of outside groups on the White Houses consideration of womens issues, especially since 1960, are also discussed.We deal with public organizations every daynearly 15 percent of the United States workforce operates within oneaddressing concerns ranging from playground safety to the prevention of international terrorism. Explores how and why this vital part of government works the way it does in the American political context. What do public organizations do? How well do they do it? How are they (and how might they be) managed? How do they distribute resources, and under what constraints? How are they similar to or different from their private sector counterparts? Is red tape always a bad thing? Considering these questions, examines a variety of real-world cases; these might include the Cuban Missile Crisis, the response to Hurricane Katrina, or the implementation of No Child Left Behind. Underlying discussion will be the perpetual difficulty in reconciling organizational efficiency with democratic accountability.Examines questions arising under the First and Fourteenth Amendments.A survey of modern political philosophy from Machiavelli to Mill. Examines the overthrow of the classical horizon, the movement of human will and freedom to the center of political thought, the idea of the social contract, the origin and meaning of rights, the relationship between freedom and equality, the role of democracy, and the replacement of nature by history as the source of human meaning. Authors may include Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, and Mill.Examines the political thought of American statesmen and writers from the founding to the twentieth century, with special emphasis on three pivotal moments: the Founding, the Crisis of the House Divided, and the growth of the modern welfare state. Readings include the Federalist Papers, the Anti-federalists, Jefferson and Hamilton, Calhoun, Lincoln, William Graham Sumner, the Progressives, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and contemporary thinkers on both the right and the left.Examines the emergence and political consequences of the view that history, culture, and human creativity should replace nature, reason, and God as the source of moral values. Can the view that all moral orientations are relative to time and place provide a sufficient foundation for a healthy political life? Authors may include: Hegel, Nietzsche, Weber, Heidegger, and Strauss.Comprehensive overview of modern British politics in historical, social and cultural context.Considers the historical formation of the United Kingdom and the development of the modern democratic state, but focuses on political developments after 1945. Analyzes party politics, the Welfare State, Thatcherism, and the contemporary political scene. Explores policy issues including healthcare, education, economic policy and the role of the media.Examines Chinese politics in the context of a prolonged revolution. After a survey of the political system as established in the 1950s and patterns of politics emerging from it, the analytic focus turns to political change in the reform era (since 1979) and the forces driving it. Topics include the political impact of decentralization and marketization, the reintegration into the capitalist world economy, and the development of the legal system. The adaptation by the Communist Party to these changes and the prospects of democratization are also examined.Despite the end of the Cold War, dictatorship has persistedeven thrived. At least 40 percent of states in the world remain authoritarian. Introduces students to the social and political logic of dictatorship. Explores questions such as: Where do dictatorships come from? Why might people support dictatorships? What effect does dictatorship have on political, economic, and social outcomes? How do dictatorships differ from one another? Why are some dictatorships resilient and stand the test of time while some quickly collapse? When dictatorships collapse, why are some dictatorships replaced by other dictatorships, while others democratize? Concentrates on the post-World War II era and explores the dynamics of dictatorship in regions throughout the world, including the Middle East, Latin America, Asia, Europe, and Africa.Explores the historical foundations, scope, and consequences of European political and economic integration since 1951. Examines how the European Unions supranational political institutions, law, and policies have developed and how they affect the domestic politics of member states. Considers challenges faced by the European Union: enlargement to include Eastern European members, the loss of national sovereignty and the democratic deficit, the creation of a European identity, and the development of a coordinated foreign policy.An examination of the forces and processes by which governments and societies approach and wage or avoid wars. The theories and practices of warfare of various political systems will be analyzed and particular attention will be paid to the interface where politics, society, and the military come together under governmental auspices in various comparative contexts. Specific examples from Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America are examined.What is Security? How do we define it? Who defines it? Who, or what, constitutes a threat? Why are they threatening? Where do threats begin? Where do they end? Who, or what, is being secured? How far can we go in order to secure ourselves? Explores these and related questions from within a variety of theoretical approaches to International Security, grouped loosely into traditional National Security and alternative Critical Security approaches, the latter representing a peculiar mix of (Neo-Marxist) Frankfurt School, French Deconstructivism, and Copenhagen (De)Securitization Theory. Students will learn to identify the premises that underpin landmark scholarship in the field of International Security and also use the theoretical debates to frame personal arguments concerning global security agenda.While focusing primarily on American material, students have the option of choosing speech controversies in other polities as the subject of their seminar papers.Examines presidential-congressional relations through a number of perspectives, including use of historical, quantitative, and institutional analyses. Readings consider the relationship between the executive branch and Congress in both the domestic arena (including regulatory and budgetary policy) and in the area of foreign and defense policy.What happens after a bill becomes a law? During implementation, the separated system of American governance comes into sharp relief across the branches of government and across three (or more) levels of government as well. This course examines how the wide range of institutional players involved -- from legislators to regulators to chief executives to judges to front-line service providers act and interact. Case studies (e.g., entitlement reform, education policy, intelligence reorganization, health care)will be used to evaluate competing theoretical frameworks-e8468More than 150 years after its publication, Democracy in America remains the most powerful sympathetic critique of modern liberal democracy ever written. Careful reading of the text and selected secondary sources leads to examination of Tocquevilles analysis of the defects to which the democratic passion for equality gives rise and consideration of possible solutions that, in contrast to the Marxist and Nietzschean critiques, aim at preserving the liberal democratic way of life.Analyzes the political, social, and cultural underpinnings of modern politics, and asks how democracy works in Japan compared with other countries. Explores how Japan has achieved stunning material prosperity while maintaining among the best healthcare and education systems in the world, high levels of income equality, and low levels of crime. Students are also instructed in conducting independent research on topics of their own choosing.Analyzes the role of social protest in generating political change on issues such as civil rights, environmentalism, womens rights, indigenous rights, and globalization. Begins by considering different theoretical approaches to understanding the emergence and effectiveness of social movements and non-governmental organizations. Then engages in comparative analysis of social protest in Europe, the United States, Latin America, and elsewhere, paying particular attention to the advantages and risks of the increasingly transnational nature of social activism.States form the foundation of modern politics. Comparative government explores their variation; international relations examine their interaction. States can be instruments of oppression or engines of progress, and recent scholarship has focused on their strength, weakness, and failure. This capstone course explores the processes that produced the early modern state in Europe, then looks at more recent attempts to replicate state development in Latin America, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. The role of war in state formation and the subject of citizenship receive particular attention.Provides an in-depth study of political violence, a set of phenomena which includes international war, civil war, ethnic conflict, political repression, genocide, ethnic cleansing, revolutions, coups, and terrorism. Groups political violence into three general categories: reciprocal violence, violence by the state, and violence against the state. Broadly examines why these patterns of violence exist, drawing upon social-psychological, economic, and institutional perspectives, in tandem with consideration of numerous specific cases.An upper-level interdisciplinary seminar on the nature of both international and national conflict. A variety of contexts and influence vectors are examined and students are encouraged to look at the ways conflicts can be solved short of actual warfare, as well as by it.Introduces students to basic elements of ancient Greek grammar and syntax; emphasizes the development of reading proficiency and includes readings, both adapted and in the original, of various Greek authors. Focuses on Attic dialect.A review of the essentials of Greek grammar and syntax and an introduction to the reading of Greek prose through the study of one of Platos dialogues. Equivalent of Greek 102 or two to three years of high school Greek is required.What accounts for the persistence of the frontier myth in American history, and why do Americans continue to find the idea so attractive? Explores the creation of and disputes over what became of the western United States from 1763 to the present. Topics include Euro-American relations with Native Americans; the creation of borders and national identities; the effect of nature and ideology; the role of labor and gender in the backcountry; and the enduring influence of frontier imagery in popular culture.How do we live a truly human life? Examines the changing responses to the this question from the ancient Greeks to the Enlightenment. Specific topics will include how humans differ from other animals, the tensions between pagan and Christian traditions and the secularization of the good life. Primary sources will include (among others)Plato, Aristotle, Seneca, the Gospels, Augustine, Christine de Pizan, Luther and Bernard MandevilleAt the beginning of the eighteenth century, many heralded King Louis XIV as the most powerful monarch to ever rule. By the end of the century, however, the French people overthrew this vaunted monarchy. Topics include: Why did France have a revolution? What conflictssocial, cultural, and intellectualhelped shape politics and society? What were the global implications of events in France, especially for the enslaved populations of French colonies? How did the Revolution impact everyday life, including social relationships and material culture? Why did the French Revolution become radical andall too oftenviolent?-7d991b8a6ynSurvey course of the long nineteenth century in Europe, from 1815 to the end of the First World War, with an emphasis on the social, cultural, and political impact of industrial and technological progress. Explores the way people lived and thought about the world around them as Europe industrialized, as well as the ambivalence that many Europeans came to attach to modernity by the end of the Great War in 1918.A social history of American women from the colonial period through the nineteenth century. Examines womens changing roles in both public and private spheres; the circumstances of womens lives as these were shaped by class, ethnic, and racial differences; the recurring conflict between the ideals of womanhood and the realities of womens experience; and focuses on family responsibilities, paid and unpaid work, religion, education, reform, womens rights, and feminism.Explores the history of African Americans from the end of the Civil War to the present. Issues include the promises and failures of Reconstruction, the Jim Crow era, black leadership and protest institutions, African American cultural styles, industrialization and urbanization, the world wars, the Civil Rights Movement, and conservative retrenchment.Survey of the making of North America from initial contact between Europeans and Africans and Native Americans to the creation of the continent''s three largest nations by the mid-nineteenth century: Canada, Mexico, and the United States. Topics include the history of Native populations before and after contact; geopolitical and imperial rivalries that propelled European conquests of the Americas; evolution of free and coerced labor systems; environmental transformations of the continent''s diverse landscapes and peoples; formation of colonial settler societies; and the emergence of distinct national identities and cultures in former European colonies. Students write several papers and engage in weekly discussion based upon primary and secondary documents, art, literature, and material culture.Explores relationships between ideas of nature, human transformations of the environment, and the effect of the physical environment upon humans through time in North America. Topics include the Columbian exchange and colonialism; links between ecological change and race, class, and gender relations; the role of science and technology; literary and artistic perspectives of nature; agriculture, industrialization, and urbanization; and the rise of modern environmentalism.Politics, almost by definition, is oppositional. It promotes an us vs. them mindset. However, Gandhi introduced a form of politics that was non-adversarial and based in dialogue. His non-violent form of politics was able to bring the masses into the political arena for the first time in South Asia, and to create one of the largest anti-colonial movements in the world. Analyzes Gandhian politics through questions such as: How did Gandhis deeply held personal views on non-violence impact his politics? What were the Gandhian techniques of mass mobilization? Can Gandhis own initiativeswhat he himself said and didadequately explain his vast popularity amongst the masses? What were the pitfalls of Gandhian politics? What groups felt alienated from them? How did people such as Martin Luther King Jr. adapt Gandhian ideas outside South Asia? Do Gandhian ideas have a place in our contemporary world?-9s370d2a064b1d83hj0Introduction to ancient Chinese history (2000 BCE to 800 CE). Explores the origins and foundations of Chinese civilization. Prominent themes include the inception of the imperial system, the intellectual fluorescence in classical China, the introduction and assimilation of Buddhism, the development of Chinese cosmology, and the interactions between early China and neighboring regions. Class discussion of historical writings complemented with literary works and selected pieces of the visual arts. Note: This course fulfills the pre-modern requirement for history majors.Focuses on conquest, colonialism, and its legacies in sub-Saharan Africa; the violent process of colonial pacification, examined from European and African perspectives; the different ways of consolidating colonial rule and African resistance to colonial rule, from Maji Maji to Mau Mau; and African nationalism and independence, as experienced by Africas nationalist leaders, from Kwame Nkrumah to Jomo Kenyatta, and their critics. Concludes with the limits of independence, mass disenchantment, the rise of the predatory post-colonial state, genocide in the Great Lakes, and the wars of Central Africa.A survey of Mexican history from pre-Columbian times to the present. Topics include the evolving character of indigenous societies, the nature of the Encounter, the colonial legacy, the chaotic nineteenth century, the Mexican Revolution, and United States-Mexican relations. Contemporary problems are also addressed.Seminar. Examines Europe''s transition from a pre-modern to an early modern society during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Beginning with an analysis of "secularization" as a historical process, examines the extent to which the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution, and the development of mercantile capitalism contributed to the undoing of traditional social, cultural, and religious structures. Readings will include an array of primary sources, as well as works by Ernst Troeltsh, Hans Blumenberg, and Charles Taylor.Seminar. Starts from the assumption that crime provides a useful lens through which historians can understand the past because punishing transgressions forces people to articulate their values and ideals. Considers changing definitions of crime and changing understandings of how to punish and rehabilitate criminals in Europe, from 1500 to 1800. Topics include: the Inquisition, sexual crimes such as rape and sodomy, capital punishment, and slander. Will also examine historical methods. Students will write a research paper based on primary sources.Seminar. Examines the evolution of various Maine social and ecological communitiesinland, hill country, and coastal. Begins with the contact of European and Native American cultures, examines the transfer of English and European agricultural traditions in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and explores the development of diverse geographic, economic, ethnic, and cultural communities during the nineteenth and into the early twentieth centuries.Seminar. Which matters more: what happened, or what people think happened? Starts with the assumption that cultural reaction to an event is as consequentialperhaps more sothan what actually happened. Examines the cultural reception and changing historical memory of people, events, and ideas that have been central to modern American History and History of Science. Seeks to answer questions about the nature and construction of public opinion, popular images, and historical memoryand what the consequences of such processes and understandings have been. Introduces the themes and methods of studying popular and cultural history, drawing principally from examples in the history of science and post-World War II American culture. (Possible examples include nuclear weapons, evolution, genetics, climate change, student activism, feminism, abortion, education, and presidential politics.) Then follows a workshop format, in which classes revolve around the reading and writing that students do as part of self-designed research projectsprojects that may be on any subject in modern United States history.Seminar: Focuses on Islam in South Asiawhich is home to the largest number of Muslims anywhere in the world, and whose large Muslim population has always co-habited with a much larger non-Muslim population. Questions and themes include: the manner and extent of the expansion of Islam over the subcontinent (religion of conquest? mass conversions?); how Islamic was Muslim rule on the sub-continent; Islamic aesthetics and contributions to material culture; the multiple engagements and reactions of Muslims to British colonial rule; the politicization of religious identity under colonialism; the partition of British India into the nation states of India and Pakistan on grounds of religion; and the contemporary concerns and challenges of South Asias Muslims.Seminar. Examines Chinese science, technology, and medicine in the cultural, intellectual, and social circumstances. The first part surveys a selection of main fields of study in traditional Chinese science and technology, nodal points of invention and discovery, and important conceptual themes. The second part tackles the clash between traditional Chinese natural studies and modern science from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries. Prominent themes include astronomy and court politics, printing technology and books, and the dissemination of Western natural science, among others. Reading materials reflect the interdisciplinary approach of this course and include secondary literature on cultural, intellectual history, ethnography, and the sociology of scientific knowledge.Seminar. Critically discusses some seminal works in African diaspora and African political thought in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Organized around global and national currents that will allow students to explore intersections in pan-African, African American, and African political thought in the context of Atlantic and global histories. Seminar topics divided into three major historic moments. The first explores major themes on Atlantic slavery and Western thought, notably slavery and racial representation, slavery and capitalism, and slavery and democracy. The second focuses on the struggle of African Americans, Africans, and West Indians for freedom in post-Abolition and colonial contexts. Topics discussed within twentieth-century national, regional, and global currents include reconstruction and industrialization, pan-Africanism, new negro, negritude, colonialism, nationalism. Finally, explores pan-African and African encounters in the context of dominant postcolonial themes, namely decolonization, Cold War, state formation, imperialism, African diaspora feminist thought, and globalism. Discusses these foundational texts and the political thoughts of major African, African American, and Caribbean intellectuals and activists in their appropriate historical context.Seminar. Texts, novels, and films help unravel Argentine history and culture. Topics examined include the image of the gaucho and national identity; the impact of immigration; Peronism; the tango; the Dirty War; and the elusive struggle for democracy, development, and social justice.Seminar. Brazil has the largest population of African descent outside Africa. Nowadays, Brazilians pride themselves on their countrys unique racial and cultural heritage, but it hasnt always been this way. For centuries, many Afro-Brazilian practices were illegal. Now, however, we are in the midst of what might be called an Afro-Brazilian renaissance. This is something to be celebrated, but it is also something to be questioned. Do these efforts to delineate, praise, and preserve Afro-Brazilian culture actually limit our understanding of it? Has labeling certain aspects of Brazilian cultural heritage as African created a situation in which other ways that Africa has influenced Brazil are overlooked? Just what do we mean by African and Brazilian anyhow? Takes a historical and anthropological approach to these and other related questions.Explores questions of power, identity, and belief in Soviet society under Joseph Stalins totalitarian system of rule from 1928-53. Readings, drawn from recent scholarship and primary documents, engage topics such as Stalins dictatorship and cult of personality; the project to build socialism; mechanisms of state violence and political terror; popular conformity/resistance; gender, family, and everyday life; mass culture and socialist realism in the arts; Stalinism at war (1941-5), in post-war Eastern Europe, and in historical memory. Students will be expected to write an original research paper.A research course for majors and interested non-majors that culminates in a single 2530 page research paper. With the professors consent, students may choose any topic in Civil War or African American history, broadly defined. This is a special opportunity to delve into Bowdoins rich collections of primary historical source documents.The history of international aid to the third world through the twentieth century. Seminar considers the imperial mission and white mans burden, aid during modern colonialism, the post-colonial aid community, the Bretton Woods Institutions, the rise of small-scale NGO aid interventions, aid in modern warfare, and the varied contemporary impacts of aid. Readings focus on Africa, along with examples from Latin America and South Asia. Participants should have some background in the history of at least one of these regions. Each student will write an original research paper on the history of an aid project.This course will tackle a number of cutting-edge issues and questions that confront society today: What sorts of questions can be answered using digital and computational methods to rethink our relationships to data and what can data can show us about the world? How do we construct models to help us better understand social phenomena and associated data? The course covers topics such as data gathering, validation, analysis, presentation, as well as statistics and software skills such as contributing to a data-oriented web site, programming, and employing GIS and network analysis. Students will leave the course with substantive experience in digital and computational methods, and a critical lens for understanding and evaluating what computers can (and cannot) bring to the study of economy, politics, and society.This course will tackle a number of cutting-edge issues and questions that confront society today: What sorts of questions can be answered using digital and computational methods to rethink our relationships to data and what can data can show us about the world? How do we construct models to help us better understand social phenomena and associated data? The course covers topics such as data gathering, validation, analysis, presentation, as well as statistics and software skills such as contributing to a data-oriented web site, programming, and employing GIS and network analysis. Students will leave the course with substantive experience in digital and computational methods, and a critical lens for understanding and evaluating what computers can (and cannot) bring to the study of economy, politics, and society.How did early modern intellectuals amass enough data to feel confident that the earth rotated around the sun? How did they write about their data (texts, diagrams, measurements, and calculations) in order to eventually convince a larger audience that the Copernican hypothesis of heliocentrism was valid even though the sun appears to move in the sky? This course examines the literary, artistic, religious, political, economic, and scientific context of these questions by introducing and using large-scale digital textual analysis, network visualization, mapping, and computation. The class will define a set of parameters for analyzing other famous cases of big data reshaping worldviews.Continuation of Italian 101. Three class hours per week, plus weekly drill sessions and language laboratory assignments. Study of the basic forms, structures, and vocabulary. More attention is paid to reading and writing.Continuation of Italian 101. Three class hours per week, plus weekly drill sessions and language laboratory assignments. Study of the basic forms, structures, and vocabulary. More attention is paid to reading and writing.Three class hours per week, plus one hour of weekly drill and conversation sessions with a teaching fellow. Covers in one semester what is covered in two-semesters in the 101102 sequence. Study of the basic forms, structures, and vocabulary. Emphasis on listening comprehension and spoken Italian. For students with an advanced knowledge of a Romance language or by permission of instructor.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant. Aims to increase fluency in both spoken and written Italian. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on contemporary texts of literary and social interest.In the recent past, Italy has experienced violent political, economic, and cultural changes. In short succession, it experienced Fascist dictatorship, the Second World War, the Holocaust, and Civil War, a passage from Monarchy to Republic, a transformation from a peasant existence to an industrialized society, giving rise to a revolution in cinema, fashion, and transportation. How did all this happen? Who were the people behind these events? What effect did they have on everyday life? Answers these questions, exploring the history and the culture of Italy from Fascism to contemporary Italy, passing through the economic boom, the Years of Lead, and the Mafia. Students have the opportunity to relive the events of the twentieth century, assuming the identity of real-life men and women. Along with historical and cultural information, students read newspaper articles, letters, excerpts from novels and short stories from authors such as Calvino, Levi, Ginzburg, and others, and see films by directors like Scola, Taviani, De Sica, and Giordana.An introduction to Italian cinema with an emphasis on Neorealism and its relationship to other genres, including Comedy Italian Style, the Spaghetti Western, the horror film, the "mondo" (shock documentary), and mafia movies, among others. Readings and discussions situate films within their social and historical contexts, and explore contemporary critical debates about the place of radical politics in Italian cinema (a hallmark of Neorealism), the division between art films and popular cinema, and the relevance of the concept of an Italian national cinema in an increasingly globalized world. No prerequisite required. Taught in English (films screened in Italian with English subtitles).Examines the genre of the Italian Giallo and its importance in contemporary Italian fiction. Considers critical approaches to the genre and addresses specific theoretical and cultural issues in the context of modern Italy, with specific focus on the cultural/geographic context that so thoroughly informs the Giallo. Examines the style and the formal and thematic choices made by authors such as Sciascia, Scerbanenco, Macchiavelli, Camilleri, Lucarelli, and Carlotto. Conducted in Italian.A continuation of the fundamentals of Japanese grammar structures and further acquisition of spoken communication skills, listening comprehension, and proficiency in reading and writing. Introduces an additional 90 kanji.An intermediate course in modern Japanese language, with introduction of advanced grammatical structures, vocabulary, and characters. Continuing emphasis on acquisition of well-balanced language skills based on an understanding of the actual use of the language in the Japanese sociocultural context. Introduces an additional 100 kanji.A continuation and progression of materials used in Japanese 205.A continuation of Latin 101. During this term, readings are based on unaltered passages of classical Latin.An introduction to different genres and themes in Latin literature. The subject matter and authors covered may change from year to year (e.g., selections from Virgils Aeneid and Livys History, or from Lucretius, Ovid, and Cicero), but attention is always given to the historical and literary context of the authors read. While the primary focus is on reading Latin texts, some readings from Latin literature in translation are also assigned. Equivalent of Latin 203 or three to four years of high school Latin is required.A survey of Mexican history from pre-Columbian times to the present. Topics include the evolving character of indigenous societies, the nature of the Encounter, the colonial legacy, the chaotic nineteenth century, the Mexican Revolution, and United States-Mexican relations. Contemporary problems are also addressed.Seminar. Brazil has the largest population of African descent outside Africa. Nowadays, Brazilians pride themselves on their countrys unique racial and cultural heritage, but it hasnt always been this way. For centuries, many Afro-Brazilian practices were illegal. Now, however, we are in the midst of what might be called an Afro-Brazilian renaissance. This is something to be celebrated, but it is also something to be questioned. Do these efforts to delineate, praise, and preserve Afro-Brazilian culture actually limit our understanding of it? Has labeling certain aspects of Brazilian cultural heritage as African created a situation in which other ways that Africa has influenced Brazil are overlooked? Just what do we mean by African and Brazilian anyhow? Takes a historical and anthropological approach to these and other related questions.Seminar. Texts, novels, and films help unravel Argentine history and culture. Topics examined include the image of the gaucho and national identity; the impact of immigration; Peronism; the tango; the Dirty War; and the elusive struggle for democracy, development, and social justice.Survey of the making of North America from initial contact between Europeans and Africans and Native Americans to the creation of the continent''s three largest nations by the mid-nineteenth century: Canada, Mexico, and the United States. Topics include the history of Native populations before and after contact; geopolitical and imperial rivalries that propelled European conquests of the Americas; evolution of free and coerced labor systems; environmental transformations of the continent''s diverse landscapes and peoples; formation of colonial settler societies; and the emergence of distinct national identities and cultures in former European colonies. Students write several papers and engage in weekly discussion based upon primary and secondary documents, art, literature, and material culture.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.Introduces students to the literary tradition of the contemporary Francophone world. Focuses on major authors and literary movements in historical and cultural context. Conducted in French.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.Latinas/os are the largest minority group in the United States. In this course we will analyze the Latina/o experience in the U.S. with special focus on migration, incorporation, and strategies for economic and social empowerment. This course will explore diversity within the U.S. Latina/o community by drawing on comparative lessons from Cuban-American, Puerto Rican, Dominican, Chicano/Mexican, and Central American patterns of economic participation, political mobilization, and cultural integration.Using Puerto Rico as a case-study from which to study borderlands theory, focuses on Puerto Ricos unique political status in history, describing how its relationship to the U.S. as  foreign in a domestic sense has shaped Puerto Rican Identity and community formation. Topical focus placed on questions of language and representation, migration patterns, and relationships between mainland and island based populations, as well as the psychological effects of colonialism. Develops students understanding that borders are both literal and metaphorical, but have real material effects on the unequal treatment of certain groups, even those purported to be part of the same nation-state.Studies how the region currently known as Latin America has been conceptualized from the fifteenth to the twenty-first centuries. Which geopolitical interests have shaped the idea of a geographical entity called Latin America? What does the term mean in different parts of the world? What has been the fate of alternate terms such as Abya-Yala, Indo-America, just America, Iberian-America, Spanish America, or the Indies? The analysis of various texts (in literature, history, cartography, philosophy, art, film, music, journalism) introduces intellectual and political debates around these terms, the regions vast diversity, and whether or not it makes sense to consider it a unit. Conducted in Spanish.History has retained the names of great male Caribbean heroes and freedom fighters during slavery such as the Haitians, Mackandal or Toussaint Louverture, the Jamaican, Cudjoe or the Cuban Coba. Enslaved Africans who rebelled against oppression and fled from the plantation system are called maroons and their act, marronage. Except for Queen Nanny of the Jamaican Blue Mountains, only male names have been consecrated as maroons. Yet, enslaved women did fight against slavery and practice marronage. Caribbean writers have made a point of bringing to memory forgotten acts of marronage by women during slavery or shortly thereafter. This course proposes to examine the fictional treatment French-speaking Caribbean authors grant to African or Afro-descent women who historically rebelled against slavery and colonization. The literary works will be studied against the backdrop of douboutism, a conceptual framework derived from the common perception about women in the French Caribbean as expressed in the Creole say fanm doubout which means strong woman. Authors studied may include Suzanne Dracius (Martinique), Fabienne Kanor (Martinique), Andr Schwart-Bart (Guadeloupe), Maryse Cond (Guadeloupe), Evelyn Trouillot (Haiti). Conducted in French.What kind of stories do bodies tell or conceal? How are those stories affected by living in a gendered body/subject? How do embodied stories relate to history and social realities? These are some of the questions addressed in this study of contemporary writing by women from the Hispanic Caribbean and the United States Latina/Chicana communities. Films and popular culture dialogue with literary works and feminist theory to enhance the course examination of the relation of bodies and sexuality to social power, and the role of this relation in the shaping of both personal and national identities Authors include Julia lvarez, Fanny Buitrago, Magali Garca Ramis, Judith Ortiz Cofer, and Mayra Santos-Febres, among others.Taught in Spanish with readings in Spanish and English.An examination of the Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borgess work, focusing not only on his short stories, poems, essays, film scripts, interviews, and cinematic adaptations, but also on the writers who had a particular influence on his work. Also studies Latin American, European, and United States writers who were later influenced by the Argentinian master. An organizing concept is Borgess idea that a writer creates his own precursors. His work modifies our conception of the past, as it will modify the future.Investigates, historicizes, and theorizes how African, European, and indigenous beliefs about the spirit world have combined in the development of African diasporic religion in the Americas. Focuses particularly on Candombl, Umbanda, and Spiritism in Brazil. Also considers Santera in Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and New York; Vodun in Haiti; Hoodoo in the Mississippi Delta; and Obeah in Jamaica and Guyana. Explores concepts of syncretism, hybridity, cultural encounter, identity, performance, and diaspora.Explores the ways and means by which we communicate with numbers; the everyday math we encounter on a regular basis. The fundamental quantitative skill set is covered in depth providing a firm foundation for further coursework in mathematics and the sciences. Topics include ratios, rates, percentages, units, descriptive statistics, linear and exponential modeling, correlation, logic, probability. A project-based course using Microsoft Excel, emphasizing conceptual understanding and application. Reading of current newspaper articles and exercises involving personal finance are incorporated to place the mathematics in real-world context.An introduction to the statistical methods used in the life sciences. Emphasizes conceptual understanding and includes topics from exploratory data analysis, the planning and design of experiments, probability, and statistical inference. One and two sample t-procedures and their non-parametric analogs, one-way ANOVA, simple linear regression, goodness of fit tests, and the chi-square test for independence are discussed. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week. Not open to students who have credit for or are concurrently enrolled in Mathematics 1200 155, Psychology 252, or Economics 2557 257, or Psychology 2520 252.An introduction to the statistical methods used in the life sciences. Emphasizes conceptual understanding and includes topics from exploratory data analysis, the planning and design of experiments, probability, and statistical inference. One and two sample t-procedures and their non-parametric analogs, one-way ANOVA, simple linear regression, goodness of fit tests, and the chi-square test for independence are discussed. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week. Not open to students who have credit for or are concurrently enrolled in Mathematics 1200 155, Psychology 252, or Economics 2557 257, or Psychology 2520 252.Functions, including the trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; the derivative and the rules for differentiation; the anti-derivative; applications of the derivative and the anti-derivative. Four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week, on average. Open to students who have taken at least three years of mathematics in secondary school.Functions, including the trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; the derivative and the rules for differentiation; the anti-derivative; applications of the derivative and the anti-derivative. Four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week, on average. Open to students who have taken at least three years of mathematics in secondary school.Functions, including the trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; the derivative and the rules for differentiation; the anti-derivative; applications of the derivative and the anti-derivative. Four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week, on average. Open to students who have taken at least three years of mathematics in secondary school.Functions, including the trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; the derivative and the rules for differentiation; the anti-derivative; applications of the derivative and the anti-derivative. Four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week, on average. Open to students who have taken at least three years of mathematics in secondary school.The definite integral; the Fundamental theorems; improper integrals; applications of the definite integral; differential equations; and approximations including Taylor polynomials and Fourier series. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.The definite integral; the Fundamental theorems; improper integrals; applications of the definite integral; differential equations; and approximations including Taylor polynomials and Fourier series. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.A review of the exponential and logarithmic functions, techniques of integration, and numerical integration. Improper integrals. Approximations using Taylor polynomials and infinite series. Emphasis on differential equation models and their solutions. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week. Open to students whose backgrounds include the equivalent of Mathematics 1600 161 and the first half of Mathematics 1700 171. Designed for first-year students who have completed an AB Advanced Placement calculus course in their secondary schools.A review of the exponential and logarithmic functions, techniques of integration, and numerical integration. Improper integrals. Approximations using Taylor polynomials and infinite series. Emphasis on differential equation models and their solutions. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week. Open to students whose backgrounds include the equivalent of Mathematics 1600 161 and the first half of Mathematics 1700 171. Designed for first-year students who have completed an AB Advanced Placement calculus course in their secondary schools.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Multivariate calculus in two and three dimensions. Vectors and curves in two and three dimensions; partial and directional derivatives; the gradient; the chain rule in higher dimensions; double and triple integration; polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; line integration; conservative vector fields; and Greens theorem. An average of four to five hours of class meetings and computer laboratory sessions per week.Topics include vectors, matrices, vector spaces, inner product spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and quadratic forms. Applications to linear equations, discrete dynamical systems, Markov chains, least-squares approximation, and Fourier series.An introduction to logical deductive reasoning and mathematical proof through diverse topics in higher mathematics. Specific topics include set and function theory, modular arithmetic, proof by induction, and the cardinality of infinite sets. May also consider additional topics such as graph theory, number theory, and finite state automata.An introduction to logical deductive reasoning and mathematical proof through diverse topics in higher mathematics. Specific topics include set and function theory, modular arithmetic, proof by induction, and the cardinality of infinite sets. May also consider additional topics such as graph theory, number theory, and finite state automata.A study of the mathematical models used to formalize nondeterministic or chance phenomena. General topics include combinatorial models, probability spaces, conditional probability, discrete and continuous random variables, independence and expected values. Specific probability densities, such as the binomial, Poisson, exponential, and normal, are discussed in depth.A study of some of the ordinary differential equations that model a variety of systems in the physical, natural and social sciences. Classical methods for solving differential equations with an emphasis on modern, qualitative techniques for studying the behavior of solutions to differential equations. Applications to the analysis of a broad set of topics, including population dynamics, oscillators and economic markets. Computer software is used as an important tool, but no prior programming background is assumed.A continuation of Linear Algebra focused on the interplay of algebra and geometry as well as mathematical theory and its applications. Topics include matrix decompositions, eigenvalues and spectral theory, vector and Hilbert spaces, norms and low-rank approximations. Applications to biology, computer science, economics, and statistics, including artificial learning and pattern recognition, principal component analysis, and stochastic systems. Course and laboratory work balanced between theory and application.A Lie group is a smooth n-dimensional surface with a multiplication that is differentiable. Allowing for a theory of "continuous symmetry" of objects, Lie groups and their associated algebras are central tools of modern mathematics and theoretical physics. Although highly sophisticated in general, the most common Lie groups are groups of matrices under matrix multiplication. Matrix groups can be studied with only a background in multivariable calculus and linear algebra. Basic course topics will include, among others, real and complex matrix Lie groups and Lie algebras, one-parameter subgroups, the exponential map, the adjoint representations, and applications in geometry and physics.Building on the theoretical underpinnings of calculus, develops the rudiments of mathematical analysis. Concepts such as limits and convergence from calculus are made rigorous and extended to other contexts, such spaces of functions. Specific topics include metric spaces, point-set topology, sequences and series, continuity, differentiability, the theory of Riemann integration, and functional approximation and convergence.An introduction to the fundamentals of mathematical statistics. General topics include likelihood methods, point and interval estimation, and tests of significance. Applications include inference about binomial, Poisson, and exponential models, frequency data, and analysis of normal measurements.An introduction to the fundamentals of mathematical statistics. General topics include likelihood methods, point and interval estimation, and tests of significance. Applications include inference about binomial, Poisson, and exponential models, frequency data, and analysis of normal measurements.A study of infinite-dimensional optimization; including calculus of variations and optimal control. Classical, analytic techniques are covered, as well as numerical methods for solving optimal control problems. Applications in many topic areas, including economics, biology, and robotics.Introduction to rings and fields. Vector spaces over arbitrary fields. Additional topics may include Galois theory, algebraic number theory, finite fields, and symmetric functions.Examines Black American sacred music from its earliest forms, fashioned by enslaved Africans, through current iterations, produced by Black global actors of a different sort. What does bondage sound like? What does emancipation sound like? Can we hear corresponding sounds generated by artists today? In what ways have creators of sacred music embraced, rejected, and re-envisioned the "strange land" over time? Looks at musical and lyrical content and the context in which various music genres developed, such as Negro spirituals, gospel, and sacred blues. Contemporary artists such as Janelle Mone, Beyonc and Lupe Fiasco included as well.For the entry-level student. Explores the fundamental elements of musicform, harmony, melody, pitch, rhythm, texture, timbreand teaches basic skills in reading and writing Western music notation for the purposes of reading, analyzing, and creating musical works.For the entry-level student. Explores the fundamental elements of musicform, harmony, melody, pitch, rhythm, texture, timbreand teaches basic skills in reading and writing Western music notation for the purposes of reading, analyzing, and creating musical works.For the entry-level student. Explores the fundamental elements of musicform, harmony, melody, pitch, rhythm, texture, timbreand teaches basic skills in reading and writing Western music notation for the purposes of reading, analyzing, and creating musical works.For the entry-level student. Explores the fundamental elements of musicform, harmony, melody, pitch, rhythm, texture, timbreand teaches basic skills in reading and writing Western music notation for the purposes of reading, analyzing, and creating musical works.A survey of music in both Arab and non-Arab countries of the Middle East and North Africa. Students learn the fundamental melodic and rhythmic features of music of this region and then address a variety of topics like music and Islam, music and dance, and the music of particular regions or histories. Includes live demonstrations by professional musicians.A socio-cultural, historical, and analytical introduction to jazz music from the turn of the 20th century to around 1950. Includes some concert attendance.Explores the history of audio recording technology as it pertains to music, aesthetic function of recording technique, modern applications of multitrack recording, and digital editing of sound created and captured in the acoustic arena. Topics include the physics of sound, microphone design and function, audio mixing console topology, dynamic and modulation audio processors, studio design and construction, principles of analog to digital (ADA) conversion, and artistic choice as an engineer. Students will create their own mix of music recorded during class time.Through a survey of music from Bach to Chopin, the student learns to recognize the basic processes and forms of tonal music, to read a score fluently, and to identify chords and modulations.An introduction to the art of combining the elements of melody, harmony, rhythm, form, and orchestration to create cohesive and engaging music. Students learn techniques for generating and developing musical ideas through exercises and four main compositional assignments: a work for solo instrument, a theme and variations for solo instrument and piano, a song for voice and piano, and a multi-movement work for three to five instruments. Students also learn ways to discuss and critique their own and one anothers work. Ends with a concert of student compositions.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.Meets once a week on Monday evenings, and performs pieces from the Arabic, Turkish, Armenian, and Greek traditions. Coached by oud player Amos Libby and percussionist Eric La Perna, the group does one performance per semester and often collaborates with the Bowdoin Belly Dance Club. No experience is required to join; students have the option of singing, learning new percussion instruments, or playing an instrument with which they are already familiar.An auditioned group of about thirty-five student singers. Repertory ranges widely, from Renaissance music to American contemporary music and folk music of the world. The choir performs at festivals and society meetings in the U.S. (American Choral Directors Association and Society of Composers), and it tours abroad during some spring breaks. Recent trips have taken the ensemble to Germany, Ireland, England, Chile, Hungary, and Slovakia. Monday through Thursday late afternoons must be reserved, but the choir usually rehearses only three of those days.A choral ensemble composed of students, faculty, staff, and community members. Entrance is by audition. This ensemble has performed at the regional convention of the American Choral Directors Association in Baltimore. The chorus has toured throughout New England, New York, Washington, D.C., and Montreal. In summer 2008, the Chorus traveled to Greece. Recent performances have included Rachmaninoffs Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, Mozarts Solemn Vespers, Jenkins Requiem, and Vaughan Williams Dona nobis pacem. Rehearsals are Thursday and Sunday evenings.An ensemble open to all students with wind and percussion experience that performs several major concerts each year on campus, along with performances at campus events and ceremonies. Repertoire consists of a variety of literature, from the finest of the wind band repertoire to light classics, show tunes and marches. Students have been featured as soloists and conductors, and student compositions have been premiered by the ensemble. Rehearsals are Tuesday and Thursday evenings.Ensemble Performance is for instrumentalists who play orchestral instruments or piano and would like to play in chamber ensembles and the chamber orchestra. Participants (except pianists) must reserve Sunday evenings from 7:00 p.m. until 8:30 p.m., and chamber ensemble rehearsals and coachings will be scheduled on an individual basis.Performs the musical forms of black populations in Latin America and the Caribbean, with particular emphasis on the marimba and drumming traditions of Afro-Colombians. May include also include Afro-Cuban, Afro-Peruvian, Afro-Puerto Rican, Afro-Dominican, and other musics. Students learn and perform multiple instruments, drumming, singing, and dance, culminating in a concert every semester. Occasional texts and audiovisual materials supplement musical learning by offering cultural and aesthetic contextualization. Rehearsals are Monday and Wednesday evenings.Groups of four to six students, formed by audition, and performing both modern and classic standards, plus some original compositions by students and faculty. They perform one concert a semester on campus, and appear occasionally in other venues. Rehearsals are arranged to suit the players and coachs schedules.Employs gender as a theoretical tool to investigate the production, consumption, and representation of popular music in the U.S. and around the world. Examines how gender and racial codes have been used historically, for example to describe music as authentic (rap, rock) or commercial (pop, new wave), and at how these codes may have traveled, changed, or re-appeared in new guises over the decades. Considers how gender and sexuality are inscribed at every level of popular music as well as how music-makers and consumers have manipulated these representations to transgress normative codes and open up new spaces in popular culture for a range of sexual and gender expressions.An advanced seminar exploring the history and vibrant contemporary practice of American Indian powwow music and dance. Students study how Native people simultaneously maintain and reshape their musical traditions at powwows through reading current scholarly literature, participating in seminar discussion, and conducting an original research project. The course focuses on how ethnomusicological methods of inquiry shed light on the differences between Northern and Southern powwow culture, including analyzing the differences in song structure and dance style, as well as the differences between competition (contest) and traditional (non-contest) powwows, and how powwows influence contemporary American Indian identity.All senior majors must take this course, which involves either a single semester of independent work or the second semester of an honors thesis. In addition to weekly individual meetings with a faculty advisor, students will meet as a group with the entire faculty several times during the semester. Must be taken in the spring of the senior year. Open only to senior music majors.Our society is riven by deep and troubling moral controversies. Examines some of these controversies in the context of current arguments and leading theoretical positions. Possible topics include abortion, physician-assisted suicide, capital punishment, sexuality, the justifiability of terrorism, and the justice of war.A survey of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century European philosophy, focusing on discussions of the ultimate nature of reality and our knowledge of it. Topics include the nature of the mind and its relation to the body, the existence of God, and the free will problem. Readings from Descartes, Locke, Hume, Kant, and others.An introduction to the thought of Martin Heidegger centered on a careful reading of Heideggers Being and Time. Focus is on unpacking Heideggers rich account of human being as finite sense making. Topics include the relation of mind to world, the notion of different ways of being, the view that understanding the being of an entity is understanding what is possible for that entity, being-towards-death, and the viability of interpreting this last notion as the collapse of a way of life.Investigates several philosophically important results of modern logic, including Gdels incompleteness theorems, the Church-Turing Theorem (that there is no decision procedure for quantificational validity), and Tarskis theorem (the indefinability of truth for formal languages). Also includes an introduction to modal logic, the logic of necessity and possibility.Moral Psychology is a sub-field of philosophy that examines human psychology with an eye towards its implications for, and possible dependence upon, ethical theory. Perhaps its central question is, what constitutes the agent that has the potential to be virtuous? In pursuit of this question we explore the following topics: ethical naturalism, psychic conflict, virtue as psychic unity, whether reason can motivate action, the existence of character and the claim that all desire is for the good.We see ourselves as rational agents: we have beliefs, desires, intentions, wishes, hopes, etc. We also have the ability to perform actions, seemingly in light of these beliefs, desires, and intentions. Is our conception of ourselves as rational agents consistent with our scientific conception of human beings as biological organisms? Can there be a science of the mind and, if so, what is its status relative to other sciences? What is the relationship between mind and body? How do our mental states come to be about things in the world? How do we know our own minds, or whether other people even have minds? Readings primarily from contemporary sources.Examines philosophical, moral, political, and policy questions regarding various environmental issues. Possible topics include the ethics of climate change policy, our obligations to future generations, benefit-cost analysis vs. the precautionary principle as a decision-making instrument, and the relationship between justice and sustainability.Begins with The Concept of Mind (1949), Gilbert Ryles most important book. In lucid prose, and with a lively sense of humor, Ryle offers penetrating analyses about knowledge, emotion, will, sensation and imagination. Daniel Dennett was one of Ryles brilliant students at Oxford, and is among the most entertaining, accessible, and provocative philosophers working today. Unlike Ryle, Dennett is marvelously well informed about recent developments in cognitive science, computer science, and evolutionary biology, and uses this knowledge in the service of his philosophy. Well read his new book, Intuition Pumps and Other Tools for Thinking (2013), as well as some earlier work.An introduction to the physics of environmental issues, including past climates, anthropogenic climate change, ozone destruction, and energy production and efficiency.An introduction to the conservation laws, forces, and interactions that govern the dynamics of particles and systems. Shows how a small set of fundamental principles and interactions allow us to model a wide variety of physical situations, using both classical and modern concepts. A prime goal of the course is to have the participants learn to actively connect the concepts with the modeling process. Three hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students are expected to have taken the physics placement examination prior to registering for Physics 1130 103.An introduction to the conservation laws, forces, and interactions that govern the dynamics of particles and systems. Shows how a small set of fundamental principles and interactions allow us to model a wide variety of physical situations, using both classical and modern concepts. A prime goal of the course is to have the participants learn to actively connect the concepts with the modeling process. Three hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students are expected to have taken the physics placement examination prior to registering for Physics 1130 103.An introduction to the conservation laws, forces, and interactions that govern the dynamics of particles and systems. Shows how a small set of fundamental principles and interactions allow us to model a wide variety of physical situations, using both classical and modern concepts. A prime goal of the course is to have the participants learn to actively connect the concepts with the modeling process. Three hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students are expected to have taken the physics placement examination prior to registering for Physics 1130 103.An introduction to the conservation laws, forces, and interactions that govern the dynamics of particles and systems. Shows how a small set of fundamental principles and interactions allow us to model a wide variety of physical situations, using both classical and modern concepts. A prime goal of the course is to have the participants learn to actively connect the concepts with the modeling process. Three hours of laboratory work per week. To ensure proper placement, students are expected to have taken the physics placement examination prior to registering for Physics 1130 103.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.An introduction to the interactions of matter and radiation. Topics include the classical and quantum physics of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter, quantum properties of atoms, and atomic and nuclear spectra. Three hours of laboratory work per week will include an introduction to the use of electronic instrumentation.A quantitative introduction to astronomy with emphasis on stars and the structures they form, from binaries to galaxies. Topics include the night sky, the solar system, stellar structure and evolution, white dwarfs, neutron stars, black holes, and the expansion of the universe. Several nighttime observing sessions required. Does not satisfy pre-med or other science departments requirements for a second course in physics. Not open to students who have credit for Physics 62 or Physics 162.An introduction to two cornerstones of twentieth-century physics, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. The introduction to wave mechanics includes solutions to the time-independent Schrdinger equation in one and three dimensions with applications. Topics in relativity include the Galilean and Einsteinian principles of relativity, the paradoxes of special relativity, Lorentz transformations, space-time invariants, and the relativistic dynamics of particles. Not open to students who have credit for or are concurrently taking Physics 275, 310, or 375.Develops a framework capable of predicting the properties of systems with many particles. This framework, combined with simple atomic and molecular models, leads to an understanding of such concepts as entropy, temperature, and chemical potential. Some probability theory is developed as a mathematical tool.Solid state physics describes the microscopic origin of the thermal, mechanical, electrical and magnetic properties of solids. Examines trends in the behavior of materials and evaluates the success of classical and semi-classical solid state models in explaining these trends and in predicting material properties. Applications include solid state lasers, semiconductor devices, and superconductivity. Intended for physics, chemistry, or earth and oceanographic science majors with an interest in materials physics or electrical engineering.Intended to provide advanced students with experience in the design, execution, and analysis of laboratory experiments. Projects in optical holography, nuclear physics, cryogenics, and materials physics are developed by the students.First the Maxwell relations are presented as a natural extension of basic experimental laws; then emphasis is given to the radiation and transmission of electromagnetic waves.A general introduction to the major concerns of contemporary psychology, including physiological psychology, perception, learning, cognition, language, development, personality, intelligence, and abnormal and social behavior. Recommended for first- and second-year students. Juniors and seniors should enroll in the spring semester.A general introduction to the major concerns of contemporary psychology, including physiological psychology, perception, learning, cognition, language, development, personality, intelligence, and abnormal and social behavior. Recommended for first- and second-year students. Juniors and seniors should enroll in the spring semester.A survey of major changes in psychological functioning from conception through childhood. Several theoretical perspectives are used to consider how physical, personality, social, and cognitive changes jointly influence the developing childs interactions with the environment.A survey of theory and research on individual social behavior. Topics include self-concept, social cognition, affect, attitudes, social influence, interpersonal relationships, and cultural variations in social behavior.An introductory survey of biological influences on behavior. The primary emphasis is on the physiological regulation of behavior in humans and other vertebrate animals, focusing on genetic, developmental, hormonal, and neuronal mechanisms. Additionally, the evolution of these regulatory systems is considered. Topics discussed include perception, cognition, sleep, eating, sexual and aggressive behaviors, and mental disorders.A systematic study of the scientific method as it underlies psychological research. Topics include prominent methods used in studying human and animal behavior, the logic of causal analysis, experimental and non-experimental designs, issues in internal and external validity, pragmatics of careful research, and technical writing of research reports.An introduction to the use of descriptive and inferential statistics and design in behavioral research. Weekly laboratory work in computerized data analysis. Required of majors no later than the junior year, and preferably by the sophomore year.An introduction to the use of descriptive and inferential statistics and design in behavioral research. Weekly laboratory work in computerized data analysis. Required of majors no later than the junior year, and preferably by the sophomore year.The multiple methods used in developmental research are examined both by reading research reports and by designing and conducting original research studies. The methods include observation, interviews, questionnaires, lab experiments, among others. Students learn to evaluate the relative strengths and weaknesses of both qualitative and quantitative approaches.A general survey of the nature, etiology, diagnosis, and treatment of common patterns of mental disorders. Students participate in a weekly supervised practicum at a local psychiatric unit.A laboratory course that exposes students to modern techniques in neuroscience that can be applied to the study of social behavior. Underlying concepts associated with various molecular, neuroanatomical, pharmacological, and electrophysiological methods are discussed in a lecture format. Students then use these techniques in laboratory preparations that demonstrate how social behavior is organized within the central nervous system of vertebrate animals, including humans.A laboratory course that exposes students to modern techniques in neuroscience that can be applied to the study of social behavior. Underlying concepts associated with various molecular, neuroanatomical, pharmacological, and electrophysiological methods are discussed in a lecture format. Students then use these techniques in laboratory preparations that demonstrate how social behavior is organized within the central nervous system of vertebrate animals, including humans.A laboratory course that exposes students to modern techniques in neuroscience that can be applied to the study of social behavior. Underlying concepts associated with various molecular, neuroanatomical, pharmacological, and electrophysiological methods are discussed in a lecture format. Students then use these techniques in laboratory preparations that demonstrate how social behavior is organized within the central nervous system of vertebrate animals, including humans.Explores the nature, origins, processes, and consequences of creative activity in the arts and sciences, in public affairs, and in daily living. Examines psychological processes that support creative thought and action by individuals and collaborative groups, and ways that sociocultural contexts stimulate, recognize, and sanction such work. Readings and seminar discussions address aspects of personality, aptitude, cognition, motivation, self-regulation, and psychopathology in relation to creativity; and the influences of family and education in developing and expressing creative potential.An examination of psychological factors that affect the processing of language, including a discussion of different modalities (auditory and visual language) and levels of information (sounds, letters, words, sentences, and text/discourse). Emphasis is on the issues addressed by researchers and the theories developed to account for our language abilities.An advanced discussion of recent empirical and theoretical approaches to understanding the cognitive neuroscience of memory. Readings and discussions address empirical studies using neuroimaging methods. Topics include hippocampal and cortical contributions to memory encoding and retrieval and the effect of genetic variability, drugs, emotions, and sleep on memory.Basic concepts, methods, and issues in the study of religion, with special reference to examples comparing and contrasting Asian and Western religions. Lectures, films, discussions, and readings in a variety of texts such as scriptures, novels, and autobiographies, along with modern interpretations of religion in ancient and contemporary, Asian and Western contexts.Uses literary, anthropological, and historical examples in order to investigate religious views of evil to ask: Evil to whom, for/against whom, under what circumstances? Is evil a given, and does it have an unquestioned, autonomous existence? Deals with evil as religious/cultural constructs. Among the issues are witchcraft, demons, political-religious-demagogic leaders and their followers, and religious ideologies of murderous-suicidal groups. Sources range from the early medieval Beowulf to present-day extreme forms of Christianity and Islam, covering various time-periods and geographical locales. Not theological or conceptual-abstract; focuses on pragmatics.Explores, historically, the development and growth of Sufism and other esoteric movements of Islam. Questions that will arise include: Do these esoteric and mystical ideas supplant or complement the exoteric practices and beliefs of Islam? Why is Sufism important for Sufis? How do we study religious ideas that thrive, sometimes, on defying description?A reading and discussion of translated classical Hindu literature, including the Rg Veda, Upanishads, Yoga Sutra, the epics Ramayana, Mahabharata (including the Bhagavad Gita), Devi Mahatmya and the Cilapatikaram, etc. Focuses on development of various types of religious worldviews and religious experiences as reflected in classical Sanskrit and vernacular literature of India.Explores a variety of approaches to and interpretations of the Quran, the foundational text of Islam. Special attention will be paid to the Qurans doctrines, to the Qurans role in Islamic law, to the Qurans relationship to the Bible, and to the Qurans historical context. While the Quran will be read entirely in English translation, we will explore the role of the Arabic Quran in the lives of Muslims worldwide will also be explored.Seminar. Pentecostalism is a form of Christianity centered on the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Pentecostals speak in tongues, heal, prophesize, see visions, and exorcise demons. By many accounts, Pentecostalism is the fastest-growing religion in the world. While the Pentecostal population is difficult to count, current estimates place the worlds total number of adherents at close to 600 million, of whom 75% are women. With particular attention to its intersections with gender, ethnicity, and class, explores the religions appeal; its impact on devotees lives; and resultant local, regional, and global implications. Case studies include the Americas, the Caribbean, and Africa.A critical examination of the criteria, practices, and spaces that constitute citizenship in the United States. It is also designed to be an exercise in citizenship. This course will be held at a Maine Correctional Facility (Maine Correctional Center in Windham, Maine). It will be composed of Bowdoin students (outside students) and inmates (inside students). All students have citizenship in common, but they will have differing relationships to and understandings of this status based on their nation state membership, residence and location, class, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, race, religion, political participation, and membership in the labor force. Readings and discussions are designed to provoke extended analysis of the entitlements and exclusions of citizenship.An examination of the ways in which changes in political economies and societies of Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Laos and Cambodia have fostered changes in the predominantly Theravada Buddhist religious cultures of modern Southeast Asia. Focuses include how civil wars in Sri Lanka and Burma, revolutions in Laos and Cambodia, and the ideology of kingship in Thailand have elicited changes in the public practice of religion. Previous credit in Religion 2222 222 (same as Asian Studies 2554 242) is highly recommended.Continuation of Russian 101. Emphasis on the acquisition of language skills through imitation and repetition of basic language patterns; multimedia material (seeing and making short film clips); the development of facility in speaking through interactive dialogues and understanding simple Russian. Conversation hour with native speakerA continuation of Russian 203. Emphasis on maintaining and improving the students facility in speaking and understanding normal conversational Russian. Writing and reading skills are also stressed. Conversation hour with native speaker.Traces the development of Russian realism and the Russian novel in the context of contemporary intellectual history. Specific topics include the Russian response to Romanticism; the rejection of Romanticism in favor of the realistic exposure of Russias social ills; Russian nationalism and literary Orientalism; the portrayal of women and their role in Russian society; the reflection of contemporary political controversies in Russian writing. Authors include Pushkin, Gogol, Lermontov, Belinsky, Turgenev, Dostoevsky, and Tolstoy. All reading materials are in English translation. Lectures, class discussions, presentations, and written assignments are all in English.Introduces the important works of Lev Tolstoy. We will focus on the artistic, moral, and philosophical concerns of the author within the context of his select short stories and novels, as well as theoretical, religious, and political texts. By focusing on autobiographical themes traced from his fictionalized autobiography Childhood, through A Confession, the students will develop an understanding of the interconnectedness of the life and art of one of the greatest novelist in Russian literary canon. All course content is in English.A study of Russian folk culture: folk tales, fairy tales, legends, and traditional oral verse, as well as the development of folk motives in the work of modern writers. Special emphasis on Indo-European and Common Slavic background. Reading and discussion in Russian. Short papers.A survey of Russian prose of the nineteenth century. Special attention paid to the development of Russian realism. Writers include Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogol, Turgenev, Dostoevsky, and Tolstoy. Lectures, in-class discussions, and presentations in English. Reading and written assignments in Russian and English. Weekly additional discussion sessions held in Russian.The major perspectives of sociology. Application of the scientific method to sociological theory and to current social issues. Theories ranging from social determinism to free will are considered, including the work of Marx, Weber, Durkheim, Merton, and others. Attention is given to such concepts as role, status, society, culture, institution, personality, social organization, the dynamics of change, the social roots of behavior and attitudes, social control, deviance, socialization, and the dialectical relationship between individual and society.Provides firsthand experience with the specific procedures through which social science knowledge is developed. Emphasizes the interaction between theory and research, and examines the ethics of social research and the uses and abuses of research in policy making. Reading and methodological analysis of a variety of case studies from the sociological literature. Field and laboratory exercises that include observation, interviewing, use of available data (e.g., historical documents, statistical archives, computerized data banks, cultural artifacts), sampling, coding, use of computer, elementary data analysis and interpretation. Lectures, laboratory sessions, and small-group conferences.Applies sociological insights to investigating the ways that humans shape and are shaped by their ecological surroundings. Introduces theories and concepts for exploring how western society and more specifically contemporary American society interact with nature. Reviews central academic questions, including social constructions of nature and perceptions of ecological risks, and drawing from complementary readings and student-led dialogue, examines in greater depth ongoing struggles over conservation, sustainability, development, and social justice.Introduces students to international health, healing, and medicine from individual experiences in local contexts to global practices. Locates health and health care within particular cultural, social, historical, and political circumstances. How do these diverse forces shape the organization of healthcare providers and systems of health care delivery? How do these forces influence peoples symptoms, health beliefs, utilization of healthcare, and interactions with healthcare providers? How are local practices of health and healthcare linked to large-scale social and economic structures? Topics include structural violence; global pharmaceuticals; the commodification of bodies, organ trafficking, and organ transplantation; pregnancy and reproduction.Visual sociology is a way of doing research that analyzes visual material, generates data as a research tool, and employs visual materials to represent results in the study of organizations, institutions, communities, and individuals. The course will develop a visual sociological imagination with readings as well as the study of photographs, documentary and popular films and other media. Students will use visual tools to study how activities from making scrapbooks, family albums and home movies, to renting self-storage areas reflect and produce social life. Assignments will include analysis of photographs and other objects in the Museum of Art and the production of digital stories.Latinas/os are the largest minority group in the United States. In this course we will analyze the Latina/o experience in the U.S. with special focus on migration, incorporation, and strategies for economic and social empowerment. This course will explore diversity within the U.S. Latina/o community by drawing on comparative lessons from Cuban-American, Puerto Rican, Dominican, Chicano/Mexican, and Central American patterns of economic participation, political mobilization, and cultural integration.An introduction to basic demographic techniques for use in applications related to public and private-sector planning and policy situations. Students will gain skills and analytic insights useful for understanding research, planning, and policy development in government, nonprofits, healthcare, and business. Learning and using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) will be a central component of the course. The course will also consist of readings, lectures, discussions, laboratory sessions, homework assignments, and a final projectDraws together different theoretical and substantive issues in sociology in the United States, primarily since 1950. Discusses current controversies in the discipline, e.g., quantitative versus qualitative methodologies, micro versus macro perspectives, and pure versus applied work.Draws together different theoretical and substantive issues in sociology in the United States, primarily since 1950. Discusses current controversies in the discipline, e.g., quantitative versus qualitative methodologies, micro versus macro perspectives, and pure versus applied work.Three class hours per week and weekly conversation sessions with assistant, plus laboratory assignments. An introduction to the grammar of Spanish, aiming at comprehension, reading, writing, and simple conversation. More attention is paid to reading and writing.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with the assistant. Grammar fundamentals are reviewed. Class conversation and written assignments are based on readings in modern literature.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.The study of topics in the political and cultural history of the Spanish-speaking world in the twentieth century, together with an advanced grammar review. Covers a variety of texts and media and is designed to increase written and oral proficiency, as well as appreciation of the intellectual and artistic traditions of Spain and Latin America. Foundational course for the major. Three class hours per week and one weekly conversation session with assistant.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of poetry and theater. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context. One weekly workshop with assistant in addition to class time. Conducted in Spanish.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.A chronological introduction to the cultural production of the Spanish-speaking world from pre-Columbian times to the present, with particular emphasis on the analysis of essay and narrative. Examines major literary works and movements in their historical and cultural context.Studies how the region currently known as Latin America has been conceptualized from the fifteenth to the twenty-first centuries. Which geopolitical interests have shaped the idea of a geographical entity called Latin America? What does the term mean in different parts of the world? What has been the fate of alternate terms such as Abya-Yala, Indo-America, just America, Iberian-America, Spanish America, or the Indies? The analysis of various texts (in literature, history, cartography, philosophy, art, film, music, journalism) introduces intellectual and political debates around these terms, the regions vast diversity, and whether or not it makes sense to consider it a unit. Conducted in Spanish.What kind of stories do bodies tell or conceal? How are those stories affected by living in a gendered body/subject? How do embodied stories relate to history and social realities? These are some of the questions addressed in this study of contemporary writing by women from the Hispanic Caribbean and the United States Latina/Chicana communities. Films and popular culture dialogue with literary works and feminist theory to enhance the course examination of the relation of bodies and sexuality to social power, and the role of this relation in the shaping of both personal and national identities Authors include Julia lvarez, Fanny Buitrago, Magali Garca Ramis, Judith Ortiz Cofer, and Mayra Santos-Febres, among others.Taught in Spanish with readings in Spanish and English.An examination of the Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borgess work, focusing not only on his short stories, poems, essays, film scripts, interviews, and cinematic adaptations, but also on the writers who had a particular influence on his work. Also studies Latin American, European, and United States writers who were later influenced by the Argentinian master. An organizing concept is Borgess idea that a writer creates his own precursors. His work modifies our conception of the past, as it will modify the future.Explores the production of Romantic images of Spain and their lasting influence on literature from the 19th Century to the present. Works by Spanish Romantics (Espronceda, Zorrilla, Becquer, de Castro) and those by others, mostly writing in English, for whom Spain is a romanticized backdrop (Byron, Irving, Longfellow, Dos Passos, Hemingway), are examined in light of the aesthetic and cultural foundations of the movement in Europe (historical hindsight, the political dissent, finding national identity). Also discussed are the resulting Romantic archetypes (Don Juan, Carmen, bandits and bulls) and the way in which these arise and evolve through interaction and contact. Readings in English and Spanish, discussions and required writing in Spanish.Introduces students to the intellectual, vocal, physical, and emotional challenge of the acting process. Students examine theatrical texts and practice the art of translating intellectual analysis into embodied performance. Fundamentals of text analysis are learned and practiced, preparing students for the more complex performance work required in all sections of Acting II.Through research and practice, this course explores the notion of the performing artist as public intellectual and engaged citizen. In the first half semester students research international social justice performance, 1913-2013: suffrage, race and economic protest pageants; Living Newspapers, Agit-prop, and the Workers Theatre and Dance Movement; collective creation and documentary theatre; performance at the intersections of gender, sexuality, race, diaspora and transnationalism; womens protest performance; theatres of healing and repair concerned with inter-ethnic conflict. In the second half, students research current socio-political and economic events, identify an issue of local, regional, and/or national significance, and collaboratively devise a performance intended to protest, educate, and inspire community action.Traces a range of dramatic genres, styles, and modes of production from the festival of Dionysus in ancient Greece through the Renaissance and into the global theater of today. Explores the evolution of plot design, with special attention to the politics of playing, the shifting strategies of representing human agency, and contemporary relationships between the theater and other visual media. Authors include Sophocles, Aristophanes, Marlowe, Shakespeare, Behn, Wilde, Beckett, Mamet, Wilson, and Churchill, with secondary readings by Aristotle, Brecht, Artaud, and Grotowski, among others. Students invited to participate in staged readings during class and part of a final group project that includes staging a portion of one of the plays studied.Extends the principles of Acting I through a full semester of rigorous physical acting work focused on presence, energy, relaxation, alignment, and emotional freedom. Develops and brings the entire body to the act of being on stage through highly structured individual exercises and ensemble-oriented improvisational work. Scene work is explored through the movement-based acting disciplines of Lecoq, Grotowski, Meyerhold, or Viewpoints. Contemporary physical theater makers Thtre de Complicit, Mabou Mines, SITI company, and Frantic Assembly are discussed. This course, along with Theater 220, Acting II: Voice and Text, is part of a two-semester course series. Theater 220 and 225 may be taken individually or in any order.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.Examines Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, King Lear, Julius Caesar, Antony and Cleopatra, and Coriolanus in light of recent critical thought. Special attention is given to psychoanalysis, new historicism, and genre theory. An advanced-level acting course dedicated to the study of Shakespeare toward its original purpose: performance. Building on the skill sets learned in Acting I and both sections of Acting II, students combine advanced text and rhetorical analysis with rigorous physical and vocal work designed to bring the text off the page and into performance. May be repeated for credit.An advanced theater seminar focusing on independent work. Advanced students creating capstone projects in playwriting, directing, acting, and design meet weekly as a group to critique, discuss, and present their work. Final performances are given at the end of the semester.An introduction to drawing, with an emphasis on the development of perceptual, organizational, and critical abilities. Studio projects entail objective observation and analysis of still-life, landscape, and figurative subjects; exploration of the abstract formal organization of graphic expression; and the development of a critical vocabulary of visual principles. Lectures and group critiques augment studio projects in various drawing media.An introduction to drawing, with an emphasis on the development of perceptual, organizational, and critical abilities. Studio projects entail objective observation and analysis of still-life, landscape, and figurative subjects; exploration of the abstract formal organization of graphic expression; and the development of a critical vocabulary of visual principles. Lectures and group critiques augment studio projects in various drawing media.An introduction to printmaking, including etching, drypoint, engraving, monotype, and relief printing methods. Studio projects develop creative approaches to perceptual experience and visual expression that are uniquely inspired by printmaking. Attention is also given to historical and contemporary examples and uses of the medium.An introduction to painting, with an emphasis on the development of perceptual, organizational, and critical abilities. Studio projects entail objective observation and analysis of still-life, landscape, and figurative subjects; exploration of the painting medium and chromatic structure in representation; and the development of a critical vocabulary of painting concepts. Lectures and group critiques augment studio projects in painting media.Photographic visualization and composition as consequences of fundamental techniques of black-and-white still photography. Class discussions and demonstrations, examination of masterworks, and field and laboratory work in 35mm format. Students must provide their own 35mm non-automatic camera.A continuation of the principles introduced in Visual Arts 160, with studio problems based on direct experience.A continuation of principles encountered in Visual Arts 180, with an added emphasis on the expressive potential of color. Cameras of various formats, from the 35mm to the 4x5, are used to complete assignments. Approaches to color film exposure and digital capture, manipulation, and printing are practiced and the affect of color is examined. Through reading assignments, slide presentations, and discussions, students explore historical and cultural implications of color photography. Weekly assignments and group critiques structure class discussion.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.This is a course for actors, gymnasts, writers, dancers, visual artists, media designers, composers, singers, and musicians. Working from a short story by Kurt Vonnegut (Harrison Bergeron), students from across disciplines will collaboratively create an original theatre work combining circus acrobatics, dramatic text, physical theatre, dance, clowning, original music, singing, instrumental ensemble, visual composition, and technological design. The project will build upon the talents and skills of those who enroll, and offer participants opportunities to design, compose, arrange, choreograph, write, and/or perform. The course will culminate in a fully staged production in Wish Theatre in spring.An investigation of the role of belief, in its myriad forms (from the personal to the political to the spiritual), in the production of 3-D art. Through class research and discussion, as well as through independent studio projects using a variety of materials and media as determined by students and faculty, explores the making of three-dimensional art to express ideas and beliefs. Readings and field trips will provide context and exposure to both historical and contemporary artworks and artists relevant to the topic. Primary goal is finding that which is important enough to us to compel us to action, that which ignites our passion as well as our intellect, and then rising to the challenge of expressing it visually with an engaging cultural product or experience.Explores narrative content, forms, processes, meanings, and approaches in the visual arts, especially in the context of contemporary practice, through interdisciplinary media, as determined jointly by faculty and students in the course.A continuation of the Senior Seminar, with emphasis on the creation of an individual body of work. Includes periodic reviews by members of the department and culminates with a group exhibition at the conclusion of the semester.